=== PAGE 101 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
89 
 
 
 
 
Exercise 12:  Find arudha padas of all the 12 houses in Chart 2. 
Hint: Mars is with 2 other planets and Ketu is with only one planet. So Mars is 
stronger than Ketu and works as the lord of Sc. Saturn is alone and Rahu is with 
another planet. So Rahu is stronger and works as the lord of Aq. 
Chart 2 
 
 
9.3 
Use of Arudha Lagna 
 
While lagna stands for true self, arudha lagna (AL) stands for the maya associated 
with self. It shows the how the native is perceived in the material world. It shows the 
status of the native. A timid and confused individual may be perceived in the world 
as a strong leader. In that case, that is the maya associated with his personality and 
AL shows it. 
 
Because arudha lagna deals with maya, illusions, perceptions and impressions, it is 
very important in judging various materialistic things. For example, Parasara and 

=== PAGE 102 ===
 
 
 
 90 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Jaimini taught that the 11th and 12th houses from AL show financial gains and 
expenditures. Natural malefics in the 3rd and 6th houses from AL show someone who 
is perceived as a bold person who hits enemies hard. Since such impressions are 
usually formed about materially successful people, malefics in the 3rd and 6th from 
AL make one bold and materially successful. Natural benefics in the 3rd and 6th 
houses from AL make one very gentle and restrained in public behavior. Such a 
person does not fight with others boldly. This combination is usually found in the 
charts of saints and saintly and mild-natured people. 
 
The 10th house from lagna in D-10 shows one’s true conduct in society. It shows the 
one’s career and the true nature of one’s karma (work). The 10th house from AL in 
D-10 shows perceptions about one’s conduct in society. It deals more with one’s 
status in career. 
 
9.4 
Use of Bhava Arudhas 
 
Arudha padas show the maya (illusion) of material world. Arudha pada of nth house 
shows the maya associated with the matters signified by of nth house. 
 
For example, 1st house stands for self. While the first house from lagna stands for 
true self, its arudha pada (AL) stands for the maya associated with self. It shows the 
how the native is perceived in the material world. It shows the status of the native. 
 
The 4th house in D-16 shows happiness from vehicle. It shows true happiness from a 
vehicle. 
 
One may be very happy with a Bajaj Chetak (an inexpensive two-wheel vehicle 
popular in India) or even a bicycle and one owning three Mercedes Benz cars may be 
unhappy with them and always dreaming of owning a better vehicle. One’s true 
happiness from vehicle has nothing to do with the type of vehicle owned. However, 
people perceive one with 3 Mercedes Benz cars as a happier person in the matter of 
vehicle, compared to a Chetak owner. This is the maya associated with “happiness 
from vehicle” in this material world. So this is shown by A4. 
 
Benefics influencing the 4th house in D-16 show someone who is happy with his 
vehicle(s). Benefics influencing A4 in D-16 show someone who is perceived to be 
happy with his vehicle(s). So planets influencing A4 in D-16 shed light on the 

=== PAGE 103 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
91 
 
 
 
physical vehicle owned by a person. Someone with Venus in own sign in A4 and 
Saturn in 4th (in D-16) may own luxurious vehicles (i.e. perceived to be happy with 
respect to vehicle) but not be happy. Someone with Saturn in A4 and Venus and 
Jupiter in 4th (in D-16) may own a small vehicle (i.e. perceived to be unhappy with 
respect to vehicles), but be happy with it. 
 
As shown above, 4th house in D-16 deals with happiness from vehicles. In D-24, 4th 
house deals with learning and education. A4 in D-24 deals with the maya (illusion) 
associated with learning. What is it? 
 
If someone studied at IIT (a top engineering institute of India), people may think that 
he is very knowledgable. If someone studied at an obscure university, people may 
not get the same impression. But it is possible that people’s perceptions are wrong 
and the person who studied at IIT is less knowledgable. 
 
So A4 in D-24 shows the school or university and the environment in which one’s 
learning takes place. Usually that decides what impression people form about one’s 
learning. 
 
Similarly, A10 in D-10 shows the maya associated with one’s karma (action – 
career). We form an impression about one’s career based on the place and 
environment where one’s work takes place. So A10 in D-10 shows one’s workplace. 
One with Mars in A10 in D-10 may work at dynamic places or engineering 
companies. One with Jupiter in A10 in D-10 may work at a university or college or a 
court of law or a temple. 
 
One important arudha pada used in Jyotish is upapada lagna (UL) – the arudha pada 
of the 12th house. This shows one’s marriage and spouse. Planets in UL show the 
kind of marriage one has and the kind of spouse one gets. For example, Mercury in 
UL can show intelligent (when good) or indecisive (when bad) spouse. Ketu in UL 
can show spiritual (when good) or short-tempered (when bad) spouse. Sun in UL can 
show a charming spouse from a respectable family. It can also show an authoritative 
spouse. Mars in UL may show a bold spouse (when good) and a quarrelsome spouse 
(when bad). 
 
The 8th house from UL shows the longevity of marriage and the 2nd and 7th houses 
from UL show the end of marriage. Malefics like Mars, Saturn and nodes in these 
houses from UL can result in troubles for the marriage and even a divorce. 

=== PAGE 104 ===
 
 
 
 92 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Nature of spouse and the length of the marriage are two different issues. If Mars and 
Saturn are in UL and Jupiter is in the 8th from UL, it may show a long marriage to an 
argumentative and mean spouse. If Jupiter is in UL and Mars and Saturn in the 8th 
from it, one may have a noble spouse but the marital life will be very rough and there 
can even be a divorce. In such a case, propitiating Saturn and Mars can help (for 
more, see the chapter on “Remedial Measures”).  
 
The 7th house shows relations and A7 (darapada) shows the illusion associated with 
them, i.e. the kind of people one usually interacts with. Based on the kind of people 
one deals with, we perceive the nature of one’s relations. If one has a friend who is a 
prostitute, people may get a negative impression about one’s dealings. If one has a 
friend who is a famous film star, there is some glamour associated with one’s 
relations. Thus darapada shows the kind of people one associates with and that plays 
an important role in forming people’s impressions about one’s relations. In D-10, 
darapada may show professional associates. In D-24, it may show friends at college 
or colleagues in the pursuit of knowledge. In D-20, it may show colleagues or friends 
in religious activities. 
 
The 3rd house shows one’s boldness. The 3rd house from lagna and the 3rd house from 
Mars show one’s true boldness and the 3rd house from AL shows how bold one is 
perceived. In addition, A3 shows the maya surrounding one’s boldness. It shows 
what drives the perceptions of people about one’s boldness. The weapons one 
possesses may drive those perceptions and A3 may show one’s weapons. 
 
The 3rd house also shows one’s communication skills. The 3rd house in D-24 (chart 
of learning and knowledge) and D-10 (achievements in society) may show one’s 
writing skills. A3 shows the maya associated with one’s writing skills. One may have 
excellent writing skills, but not write any book. In such a case, people may not really 
appreciate one’s writing skills. One may be an average writer, but end up writing 20 
books. In such a case, people may perceive him as a great writer. Thus the exact 
books written by one decide the perceptions of the world about one’s writing skills. 
So A3 in D-24 and D-10 may show the books or articles written by him. In this 
author’s D-10, for example, A3 is in Pisces. This can mean that he will be known for 
some books on saattwik and traditional subjects and astrology certainly fits the bill. 
 
Let us take the 5th house as another example. It shows intelligence, following, 
devotion etc. The 5th house in D-20, the chart of religious activities, shows one’s 

=== PAGE 105 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
93 
 
 
 
devotion (bhakti) in religious activities. A5 in D-20 shows the things based on which 
the world forms an impression about one’s devotion. The mantras one recites, the 
poojas and the religious rituals one performs control the impression of the world 
about one’s devotion in religious matters. So A5 shows them. 
 
The 5th house in D-10, the chart of career, shows the following one has. The world 
forms an impression about one’s following based on the power wielded by one. A 
political leader in a position of power is assumed to have a lot of following. So A5 
can show the trappings of power enjoyed by one. It can also show awards. 
 
In D-24, the chart of learning, the 5th house may show intelligence. A5 in D-24 
shows the things based on which the world forms an impression about one’s 
intelligence in learning. These impressions are usually formed based on one’s 
performances in examinations, one’s scores in tests and one’s academic distinctions. 
So that is what A5 in D-24 shows. 
 
Similarly, the 9th house shows one’s fortune. In D-24, it may show fortune related to 
learning. It can show the guidance received by one (i.e. guru – teacher). But the 
world forms an impression about one’s fortune in learning, based on the degrees 
received by one. One with an advanced degree is assumed to be more fortunate with 
respect to learning than one with a simple degree. So A9 can show one’s higher 
degrees. 
 
In this manner, intelligent and blessed students can clearly understand the meanings 
of various arudha padas in various divisional charts. One cannot become a good 
Vedic astrologer by memorizing a lot of tables. One needs to understand the basics 
clearly and apply them intelligently. 
 
All the principles of Vedic astrology should be understood and applied in the context 
of “desa” (country – place), “kaala” (time – age) and “paatra” (nature and class of 
the persons involved). When we interpret arudha padas, we are talking about the 
things based on which the world forms an impression about an aspect of the native. 
The things that drive the world’s perceptions can be different based on which world 
we are living in. They vary significantly from one place to another, from one age to 
another and from one class to another. Intelligent use of arudhas requires an 
astrologer to understand the world that the native lives in. 
 

=== PAGE 106 ===
 
 
 
 94 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
9.5 
Computation of Graha Arudhas 
 
Just as arudha padas of all houses (bhavas) are defined, arudha padas of all the nine 
planets (grahas) are also defined and they are called graha arudhas. They are 
computed as follows: 
 
(1) Take the sign containing the planet of interest in the divisional chart of interest. 
(2) Find the sign owned by that planet. 
NOTE: Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn own 2 signs each. In 
their case, take the stronger sign owned by the planet. The chapter on 
“Strength of Planets and Rasis” will explain the rules used in comparing 
the strengths of signs. Take the two signs, apply those rules and find the 
stronger sign. 
(3) Count signs from the sign containing the planet of interest to the stronger sign 
owned by it. Counting is in the zodiacal direction always. For example, if the 
planet we are interested in is Sun and he is Gemini, we count signs from Gemini 
to Leo and get 3. 
(4) Count the same number of signs from the stronger sign owned and find the 
ending sign. In the above example, we count 3 signs from Leo and we end up in 
Libra. 
(5) Exception: If the sign found thus in step (4) is in the 1st or 7th from the original 
sign containing the planet, then we take the 10th sign from the sign found in step 
(4). Otherwise we don’t make any change. 
(6) The resulting sign contains the arudha pada of the planet of interest. 
 
Example 30: Find the arudha padas of all the planets in Chart 1. 
 
(1) Sun is in Pi. From Pi, Sun’s own sign Le is the 6th sign. Counting 6 signs from 
Le, we get Cp. So Cp contains Sun’s arudha pada. 
(2) Moon is in Ge. From Ge, Moon’s own sign Cn is the 2nd sign. Counting 2 signs 
from Cn, we get Le. So Le contains Moon’s arudha pada. 
(3) Mars is in Ar. He owns 2 signs – Ar and Sc. Ar is stronger as it contains more 
planets. From Ar, Ar is the 1st sign. Counting 1 sign from Ar, we get Ar. Because 

=== PAGE 107 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
95 
 
 
 
this is the 1st house from the sign containing Mars, we take the 10th therefrom and 
get Cp. So Cp contains the arudha pada of Mars. 
(4) Mercury is in Pi. He owns 2 signs – Ge and Vi. Ge is stronger as it has Moon and 
Vi is empty. From Pi, Ge is the 4th sign. Counting 4 signs from Ge, we get Vi. 
Since Vi is the 7th from Pi, we take the 10th from Vi and get Ge. So Ge contains 
Mercury’s arudha pada. 
(5) Jupiter is in Ar. He owns 2 signs – Sg and Pi. Pi is stronger as it has 3 planets and 
Sg is empty. From Ar, Pi is the 12th sign. Counting 12 signs from Pi, we get Aq. 
So Aq contains Jupiter’s arudha pada. 
(6) Venus is in Pi. He owns 2 signs – Ta and Li. Li is stronger (it will become clear 
after reading the chapter on “Strength of Planets and Rasis”.). From Pi, Li is the 
8th sign. Counting 8 signs from Li, we get Ta. So Ta contains the arudha pada of 
Venus. 
(7) Saturn is in Ar. He owns 2 signs – Aq and Cp. Cp is stronger as it has Ketu and 
Aq is empty. From Ar, Cp is the 10th sign. Counting 10 signs from Cp, we get Li. 
Since Li is the 7th from Ar, we take the 10th from Li and get Cn. So Cn contains 
Saturn’s arudha pada. 
(8) Rahu is in Cn. From Cn, Rahu’s own sign Aq is the 8th sign. Counting 8 signs 
from Aq, we get Vi. So Vi contains Rahu’s arudha pada. 
(9) Ketu is in Cp. From Cp, Ketu’s own sign Sc is the 11th sign. Counting 11 signs 
from Sc, we get Vi. So Vi contains Ketu’s arudha pada. 
 
Exercise 13: Find arudha padas of all the nine planets in Chart 2. 
Hint: Out of the 2 signs owned by Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn, Ar, Ta, 
Vi, Sg and Aq are stronger (respectively). 
 
NOTE: In divisional charts in which Ketu is in the 7th from Rahu, his maya (arudha 
pada) is with Rahu’s maya. In divisional charts in which Rahu and Ketu are together, 
their mayas are in opposite rasis. The readers may ponder over the philosophical 
significance of this. 
 
9.6 
Use of Graha Arudhas 
 
Just as arudha padas of various houses show the illusions of the world related to the 
matters signified by various houses, arudha padas of various planets show the 

=== PAGE 108 ===
 
 
 
 96 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
illusions of the native related to the matters signified by various planets. Houses 
show various aspects of the person’s life and their arudhas show how they are 
perceived in the world. Planets show various persons, forces and situations that 
impact various aspects of a person’s life and their arudhas show the related 
perceptions by the person. 
 
Just as the perceptions of the world about a native can be totally different from the 
reality, perceptions of a native about himself, about the world and about the 
situations that (s)he goes through can be totally different from the reality. Graha 
arudhas throw light on these perceptions. 
 
Example 31: 
Let us consider Moon’s periods for the native in Chart 1. Because Moon is in the 10th 
house, his periods will give important developments related to career. Because Moon 
owns the 2nd from AL and occupies AL, status of the native in the eyes of people will 
increase in Moon’s periods. However, Moon’s arudha pada is in the 12th from lagna. 
This will make the native feel frustrated. The native will be unhappy and under the 
illusion that things are going bad for him. But people will think that his status is 
increasing and there will be some good developments in career in reality. 
 
Example 32: 
Let us consider India’s Prime Minister Sri A.B. Vajpayee’s rasi chart given in Chart 
3. Jupiter’s period ran in 1980’s and 1990’s. With Jupiter in the 2nd house from AL, 
his dasa can give a rise in material fortune. With Jupiter being a functional benefic 
for Scorpio lagna and occupying a quadrant, Jupiter dasa should give comforts in 
reality. However, Jupiter’s arudha pada is in Libra, the 12th house from lagna. This 
can make the native feel unhappy, uncomfortable and alienated. Graha arudhas show 
how the native feels. 
 
In Rahu’s sub-period in Jupiter’s period, the native became India’s Prime Minister. 
Rahu is in the 8th house from lagna and his periods should cause discomfort, 
frustration and health troubles in reality. However, being a natural malefic in the 6th 
house from AL, Rahu can give material success and victory over enemies and rivals.  
That is how the world perceives him. Rahu’s arudha pada is in Libra, i.e. the 12th 
house from lagna. This can again make the native frustrated and unhappy. However, 
if we are interested in the native’s material success, Rahu’s 6th house placement from 
AL is the most important factor and success is ensured. 

=== PAGE 109 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
97 
 
 
 
 
Chart 3 
 
 
Example 33: 
Consider the native of Chart 4. Let us see what results Ketu’s period can give him. 
Ketu is in lagna. Ketu in lagna can make one spiritual. In Ketu dasa, this native 
joined a spiritual movement and started meditating regularly. 
 
From AL, Ketu is in 3rd. As a natural malefic in the 3rd from AL, Ketu can give 
boldness and material success. He was indeed materially successful. 
 
How did the native feel in this dasa? Look at Ketu’s arudha pada. It is in Capricorn, 
the 5th house from lagna. Ketu in 5th gives proficiency in mathematics and abstract 
analysis and makes one do intelligent work. This may be how the native felt about 
his activities in that period. 
 
In this manner, we can use graha arudha to understand the illusions the native is 
under. Illusion should not be looked at as a bad word here. We are all constantly 

=== PAGE 110 ===
 
 
 
 98 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
under illusion. Basically graha arudhas show the perceptions of the native. They 
show how the native feels. 
 
Judging the positions of planets with respect to lagna, we can understand the real 
situation. Judging the positions of planets with respect to AL, we can understand the 
perceptions of people and the situation at a materialistic level. Judging the positions 
of the arudha padas of planets with respect to lagna, we can understand how the 
native perceives the situation and how the native feels. Unless we understand this 
aspect correctly, we cannot offer good astrological counselling. When we counsel a 
person, we must understand how the person feels and what drives those feelings. So, 
each of these 3 aspects of chart analysis is important in its own right. A good student 
of Vedic astrology will master all the 3 aspects. 
 
Chart 4 
 
9.7 
Summary 
 
Arudha pada of a house shows the maya surrounding the matters signified by that 
house. It shows the factors based on which the impressions of people are formed. 

=== PAGE 111 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
99 
 
 
 
Arudha lagna or AL shows people’s impressions about a native. It shows one’s status 
in the material world. Darapada or A7 shows one’s relationships. Upapada (UL) 
shows one’s marriage and spouse. A4 in D-16 shows one’s vehicle. A4 in D-24 
shows one’s school or college or university (place of education). A10 in D-10 shows 
one’s workplace. 
 
Arudha padas of planets show the perceptions of the native about the world, about 
himself or herself and about the situations developing in his or her life. 
 
Analysis of the positions of planets with respect to lagna shows reality. Analysis of 
the positions of planets with respect to AL shows perceptions of the world and 
material situation. Analysis of individual bhava arudhas throws light on various 
things based on which world forms impressions about a native. Analysis of the 
positions of the arudha padas of planets with respect to lagna shows the perceptions 
of the native. 
 
9.8 
Answers to Exercises 
 
Exercise 12: AL in Aq, A2 in Ar, A3 in Sg, A4 in Sc, A5 in Sg, A6 in Aq, A7 in Pi, 
A8 in Vi, A9 in Ta, A10 in Sg, A11 in Sg, UL in Aq. 
 
Exercise 13: Arudha padas of planets are in the following signs: Sun  – Sc, Moon – 
Sg, Mars – Ge, Mercury – Pi, Jupiter – Sc, Venus – Aq, Saturn – Sg, Rahu – Vi, 
Ketu – Pi. 

=== PAGE 112 ===
 
 
 
 100 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
10.  Aspects and Argalas 
 
10.1 Introduction 
 
Planets aspect other planets, rasis and houses in astrology. A planet aspecting a 
house or a planet has some influence on the matters signified by that house or planet. 
The nature of the influence exerted and the degree to which that influence succeeds 
depends on the individual situation. 
 
There are 2 kinds of aspects: (1) graha drishti and (2) rasi drishti. Drishti means 
aspect. Each planet aspects certain houses from it with graha drishti (planetary 
aspect). The houses aspected are fixed based on the planet. In addition, rasis aspect 
each other and a planet aspects the rasis aspected by the rasi occupied by it. This is 
called rasi drishti (sign aspect). 
 
10.2 Graha Drishri 
 
All planets aspect the 7th house from them. For example, Sun in Ta aspects Sc. Mars 
in Ge aspects Sg. Moon in Le aspects Aq. Jupiter in Pi aspects Vi. Saturn in Cp 
aspects Cn. Find the 7th house from the planet and the planet aspects that house. 
 
In addition, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have special aspects: 
 
• Jupiter aspects the 5th and 9th houses from him, in addition to the 7th house. 
• Mars aspects the 4th and 8th houses from him, in addition to the 7th house. 
• Saturn aspects the 3rd and 10th houses from him, in addition to the 7th house. 
 
We can decide the signs and houses aspected by a planet as above. If any planet 
occupies the aspected houses, then the planet is also aspected. For example, Jupiter 
in Ta will aspect Saturn in Cp, because Cp is the 9th house from Ta and Jupiter 
aspects the 9th from him. 
 

=== PAGE 113 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
101 
 
 
 
Example 34: 
Let us say Jupiter is in Ge, Mars in Le and Saturn in Sg. Jupiter in Ge will aspect the 
5th, 7th and 9th from Ge. So Jupiter in Ge will aspect Li, Sg and Aq. Mars in Le will 
aspect the 4th, 7th and 8th from Le. So Mars in Le will aspect Sc, Aq and Pi. Saturn in 
Sg will aspect the 3rd, 7th and 10th from Sg. So Saturn in Sg will aspect Aq, Ge and 
Vi. 
 
Look at a few charts and figure out which planets are aspecting which houses and 
which planets are aspecting which planets. With experience, you can become good at 
it and this is an important skill required in interpreting charts. 
Chart 5 
 
Exercise 14: Find the rasis, houses and planets aspected with graha drishti by Sun, 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn in Chart 5. 
 
10.3 Rasi Drishti 
 

=== PAGE 114 ===
 
 
 
 102 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Rasis aspect other rasis based on the following rules: 
 
• A movable rasi aspects all fixed rasis except the one adjacent to it. 
• A fixed rasi aspects all movable rasis except the one adjacent to it. 
• A dual rasi aspects all other dual rasis. 
 
For example, Ar is a movable sign. It aspects all the fixed signs except the one 
adjacent to it, i.e. Ta. So Ar aspects Le, Sc and Aq. 
 
Ta is a fixed sign. It aspects all the movable signs except the one adjacent to it, i.e. 
Ar. So Ta aspects Cn, Li and Cp. 
 
Ge is a dual sign. It aspects all other dual signs. So Ge aspects Vi, Sg and Pi. 
 
Figure 2: Rasi Aspects 
 
 
It may be noted that sign Y will aspect sign X if sign X aspects sign Y. A visual 
representation of rasi aspects is given in Figure 2. A line is drawn between every pair 
of signs that aspect each other. A planet aspects the signs aspected by the sign it 
occupies. It also aspects the houses and planets in those signs. This aspect is called 

=== PAGE 115 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
103 
 
 
 
rasi drishti (sign aspect). For example, a planet in Libra will aspect the houses and 
planets in Aq, Ta and Le. 
 
Exercise 15: Find the rasis, houses and planets aspected with rasi drishti by Sun, 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu in Chart 5. 
 
10.4 Graha Drishti vs Rasi Drishti 
 
A simple analogy will make things clearer. Look at planets as people. Let us take a 
priest as an example. Will he have some influence on his neighbors? Probably. 
Because he lives there, gets up early in the morning and recites mantras, it may 
influence his neighbors also. Because of the houses they live in, his neighbors come 
under his influence. How pious and god-fearing his influence makes his neighbors 
depends on other factors. If one of the neighbors is a dreaded criminal, he is not 
going to be influenced. 
 
Let us take a dreaded criminal as another example. He may also have an influence on 
his neighbors. Youngsters living in the neighboring houses may enter the criminal 
world because of him. Ladies in the neighboring houses may stay inside their houses 
at night and not come out after certain time. 
 
Thus we are influenced by people in neighboring houses. Influence exerted by 
planets by rasi drishti is similar to this influence. 
 
Compared to this limited influence on the neighbors, a priest may have greater 
influence in the matters of the nearby temple where he works. He may have a lot of 
influence on devotees who come to visit the temple and who approach him for 
performing poojas, homas etc. Influence exerted with graha drishti is similar to this 
influence. 
 
Influence exerted by rasi drishti is due to the sign a planet is in. This is analogous to 
the influence people exert on their neighbors. All planets in a sign will have rasi 
drishti on the same signs, just as people living in the same house see the same 
neighbors everyday and exert some influence over the same neighbors. But the 
influence they exert may differ. A priest may tell his neighbors to pray to God. His 
movie-loving brother living in the same house may talk the same neighbors into 

=== PAGE 116 ===
 
 
 
 104 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
watching all the movies of a particular actress. Thus, planets in the same sign exert 
influence on the same houses and planets through rasi drishti, but the nature of the 
influence varies from planet to planet. 
 
Influence exerted by graha drishti is due to the inherent nature of a planet. Different 
planets in the same sign may aspect different houses and planets with graha drishti. 
A priest may have great influence over the devotees at the temple he works at and his 
movie-loving brother living in the same house may have great influence over his 
movie-loving classmates and co-members of the fan club of an actress, of which he 
is president. Similarly, planets in the same sign may influence planets in different 
houses. However, everyone in a house may have a strong influence over friends of 
the family who visit the house frequently. Similarly, all planets aspect the 7th house 
from them and have an influence over it. 
 
10.5 Argala (Intervention) 
 
In addition to the influence caused by planets with graha drishti and rasi drishti, there 
is another influence called “argala”. 
 
Argala is a very important concept in Vedic astrology. Literally speaking, argala 
means “a bolt”. Argala on a house shows the influences that intervene in its affairs, 
decide some parts of it and close the bolt on it, so to speak. Planet having rasi drishti 
have a small influence. Planets having graha drishti have a more concrete influence. 
Planets with argala simply decide some parts of the matter signified by the house. 
The influence caused by argala is decisive. 
 
A planet or house in the 2nd, 4th and 11th houses from a planet or house causes 
primary argala on the latter. Argala by a benefic planet is called a “subhaargala” 
(benefic intervention) and argala by a malefic planet is called a “paapaargala” 
(malefic intervention). This simple concept can be better appreciated if some 
examples are given.  
 
The 4th house stands for education. The 2nd, 4th and 11th from the 4th house are 5th, 7th 
and 2nd houses respectively. One’s intelligence (5th), interaction with others (7th) and 
and overall character and samskara (2nd) make or break one education. If Jupiter is in 
5th house, he will give intelligence and his subhargala (benefic intervention) on 4th 
will help one’s education. If Rahu is in 5th house, his papargala (malefic 

=== PAGE 117 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
105 
 
 
 
intervention) on 4th will cause obstacles in one’s education by way of poor 
intelligence. Similarly, benefics and malefics in the houses causing argala cause 
good and bad intervention. Basically, the point is that intelligence, interaction and 
samskara are the things that decide one’s education. They have a decisive role. 
 
Let us take another example. Short journeys are seen from the 3rd house. What are 
the things necessary for a journey? One needs a vehicle (4th). One may need 
someone to serve one by driving the vehicle. Servants are seen from 6th. So, no 
wonder the 4th and 6th houses cause argala on the 3rd house, being the 2nd and 4th 
from it respectively! If one has papargala on 3rd from 4th, it may show trouble to the 
journey because of the vehicle. If one has papargala on 3rd from 6th, it may show 
trouble to the journey because of the driver. 
 
Let us take another example. Domestic harmony, comfort, well-being and happiness 
are seen from the 4th house. What are the things that can make or break domestic 
harmony? Of course, wife, children and other family members! Each of them can 
intervene in one’s domestic harmony. No wonder the 5th, 7th and 2nd houses have an 
argala on the 4th house (being the 2nd, 4th and 11th respectively from the 4th house)! If 
a malefic in 5th has papargala on 4th, it may show domestic clashes and lack of sukha 
(comfort/happiness) on account of a child. If a benefic in 7th has subhargala on on 
4th, it may show domestic happiness due to a caring partner. 
 
Apart from the 2nd, 4th and 11th houses from a house, the 5th house from a house has a 
secondary argala on it. In the case of learning, argala of 8th house on 4th (8th is the 5th 
from 4th) shows the influence of hard work in learning. Hard work is another decider. 
In the case of journey, argala of 7th house on 3rd house (7th is the 5th from 3rd) shows 
the influence of partners in a journey. 
 
10.6 Virodhargala (Obstruction) 
 
Virodhargala shows the obstruction of argala. Planets and houses in the 12th, 10th, 3rd 
and 9th houses from a house or planet cause virodhargala and obstruct the argala on it 
from the 2nd, 4th, 11th and 5th houses from it (respectively). For example, let us say 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are in Ge, Pi, Ar and Vi respectively. Saturn is in 
the 4th from Mercury and Ge and he causes argala on them. With Saturn being a 
malefic, this is a paapaargala (malefic intervention). But Jupiter is in the 10th from 
Mercury and Ge. So he obstructs Saturn’s argala and averts the troubles. Venus is in 

=== PAGE 118 ===
 
 
 
 106 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
the 11th from Mercury and Ge and so he causes argala on them. With Venus being a 
benefic, it is a subhaargala (benefic intervention). If Le (3rd from Ge) is empty, this 
argala is unobstructed. 
 
NOTE: If a sign contains Ketu, argalas and virodhargalas on it are counted anti-
zodiacally. For example, let us say Ketu is in Vi. Then Le, Ge, Sc and Ta are the 2nd, 
4th, 11th and 5th from Vi (counted anti-zodiacally) and planets in those signs cause 
argala on Vi and on the planets in Vi. Virodhargala is also counted similarly. 
 
Exercise 16: Find the planets causing argalas and virodhargalas on all the 12 houses 
in Chart 5. 
 
There is a special principle regarding the 3rd house obstruction. If there are several 
malefics in the 3rd house from a house or a planet, they cause argala instead of 
virodhargala on that house or planet. 
 
10.7 Use of Argala 
 
Depending on the matter of interest, take the relevant house or the relevant karaka. 
Find argalas and virodhargalas on it. If there are both, see if more planets cause 
argala or virodhargala. If they are caused by the same number of planets, compare 
the strengths and decide whether argala dominates or virodhargala. Based on the 
signs, houses and planets involved, guess the meaning of the argala or virodhargala. 
 
Argala from the 2nd house shows the basic ingredient for the sustenance of a matter. 
For example, the 2nd house shows food and it is a basic ingredient for the sustenance 
of self (1st). The 5th house shows intelligence and it is a basic ingredient for the 
sustenance of learning (4th). 
 
Argala from the 4th house shows the basic factor that drives the mood, state and 
progress of a matter. For example, the 4th house shows comfort and it drives the 
mood and state of self (1st). The 7th house shows interaction and that drives one’s 
learning (4th). 
 

=== PAGE 119 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
107 
 
 
 
Argala from the 11th house shows the catalyst that can result in gains for a matter. 
For example, the 2nd house shows character, grooming and samskara and it is a 
catalyst in the process of learning (4th). 
 
Secondary argala from the 5th house shows the additional contributing factors. For 
example, the 5th house shows emotional situation and that contributes to the state of 
self (1st). The 8th house shows hard work and that contributes to one’s learning (4th). 
 
Using the above guidelines, we can understand the meaning of argalas on houses and 
karakas. 
 
Chart 6 
 
Example 35: Consider India’s former Prime Minister Sri P.V. Narasimha Rao’s 
chart shown in Chart 6. Let us find the planets having a decisive influence on his 
livelihood and karma (action) in society. 
 
Saturn is the significator of livelihood and karma. Argalas on him denote decisive 
influences on livelihood and karma. Mercury, Mars and Sun have an argala on 

=== PAGE 120 ===
 
 
 
 108 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Saturn, as they are in the 11th from him. Mercury’s influence indicates writing and 
scholarliness. Sun and Mars suggest politics.  
 
Chart 7 
 
Example 36: Consider the chart shown in Chart 7. It belongs to well-known 
Hollywood actor and former US President Ronald Reagan. Let us find the planets 
having a decisive influence on his livelihood and karma. The only planet with an 
argala on Saturn is Venus in the 11th from Saturn. Thus he was an actor, entertainer 
and a showman. In Example 35, Sun has an argala on Saturn and politics was the 
native’s livelihood. In this chart, on the other hand, Sun has no argala and the native 
entered politics late. His political power is indicated by Sun’s unobstructed argala on 
GL. 
 
Exercise 17: Try to guess the nature of livelihood and karma (action) of the native in 
Chart 8. Don’t look at the answer until you think a lot. 
Hint: Being in own house, Venus dominates over Jupiter and Mercury. Being the 
most advanced planet, Mercury is also strong. Mars dominates over Sun and Ketu, 
being in own house and being more advanced than Ketu – the other owner of Sc. 

=== PAGE 121 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
109 
 
 
 
Chart 8 
 
10.8 Answers to Exercises 
 
Exercise 14: Rasis, houses and planets aspected with graha drishti are listed below. 
 
Planet 
Aspected Rasis 
Aspected Houses Aspected Planets
Sun 
Sc 
1st 
Mars, Saturn 
Moon 
Li 
12th 
— 
Mars 
Aq, Ta, Ge 
4th, 7th, 8th 
Ketu, Sun 
Mercury 
Ge 
8th 
— 
Jupiter 
Cp, Pi, Ta 
3rd, 5th, 7th 
Venus, Sun 
Venus 
Cn 
9th 
— 
Saturn 
Cp, Ta, Le 
3rd, 7th, 10th 
Venus, Sun, Rahu
 
Exercise 15: Rasis, houses and planets aspected with rasi drishti are listed below. 
 

=== PAGE 122 ===
 
 
 
 110 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Planet 
Aspected Rasis 
Aspected Houses 
Aspected Planets 
Sun 
Cn, Li, Cp 
9th, 12th, 3rd 
Venus 
Moon 
Le, Sc, Aq 
10th, 1st, 4th 
Rahu, Mars, Saturn, 
Ketu 
Mars 
Cp, Ar, Cn 
3rd, 6th, 9th 
Venus, Moon 
Mercury 
Pi, Ge, Vi 
5th, 8th, 11th 
Jupiter 
Jupiter 
Sg, Pi, Ge 
2nd, 5th, 8th 
Mercury 
Venus 
Ta, Le, Sc 
7th, 10th, 1st 
Sun, Rahu, Mars, 
Saturn 
Saturn 
Cp, Ar, Cn 
3rd, 6th, 9th 
Venus, Moon 
Rahu 
Li, Cp, Ar 
12th, 3rd, 6th 
Venus, Moon 
Ketu 
Ar, Cn, Li 
6th, 9th, 12th 
Moon 
 
Exercise 16: List of planets causing argalas and virodhargalas is given below. 
 
Argalas from 
Virodhargalas from 
House 
2nd 
4th 
5th 
11th 
12th 
10th 
9th 
3rd 
1st (Sc) 
Merc 
Ketu 
— 
Jup 
— 
Rahu 
— 
Ven 
2nd (Sg) 
Ven 
— 
Moon 
— 
Mars 
Sat 
Jup 
Rahu 
Ketu 
3rd (Cp) 
Ketu 
Moon 
Sun 
Mars 
Sat 
Merc 
— 
Jup 
— 
4th (Aq)∗ 
Ven 
Mars 
Sat 
— 
Moon 
— 
Sun 
— 
Merc 
5th (Pi) 
Moon 
— 
— 
Ven 
Ketu 
Merc 
Mars 
Sat 
Sun 
6th (Ar) 
Sun 
— 
Rahu 
Ketu 
— 
Ven 
Merc 
— 
7th (Ta) 
— 
Rahu 
Jup 
— 
Moon 
Ketu 
Ven 
— 
8th (Ge) 
— 
Jup 
— 
Moon 
Sun 
— 
Ketu 
Rahu 
9th (Cn) 
Rahu 
— 
Mars 
Sat 
Sun 
— 
Moon 
— 
Jup 
                                                 
∗ Ketu is in Aq and the counting is in reverse. 

=== PAGE 123 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
111 
 
 
 
10th (Le) 
Jup 
Mars 
Sat 
Merc 
— 
— 
Sun 
Moon 
— 
11th (Vi) 
— 
Merc 
Ven 
— 
Rahu 
— 
Sun 
Mars 
Sat 
12th (Li) 
Mars 
Sat 
Ven 
Ketu 
Rahu 
Jup 
— 
— 
Merc 
 
Exercise 17: 
Saturn is the significator of livelihood and karma. He shows what kind of activity a 
native engages in. Being in a watery sign, he shows something flexible and fluid. By 
studying the argalas on him, we can see the decisive influences on the nature of his 
karma. 
 
Venus is in the 4th from Saturn. His argala on Saturn shows creative and aesthetic 
work (e.g. actor, poet etc). Though Venus is in own sign, Mercury is more advanced 
and Mercury also has influence over Saturn through his argala. Mercury and Venus 
together show intelligent and logical work of an aesthetic nature. Being the 4th house 
argala, this influence is the basic driving factor of the native’s karma. 
 
Mars is very strong in the 5th house from Saturn and he also has a secondary argala. 
Martian influence gives discipline, systematicity and enterprise. He can denote some 
design work. Mars engineers things. 
 
Rahu is in the 11th from Saturn and he has a malefic argala on Saturn. Rahu stands 
for pathbreaking innovation and also shady elements of society. His 11th house 
argala can denote gains in his livelihood with those factors working as catalysts. 
 
The final answer: The native was a very famous and successful fashion designer. He 
had mafia connections. He was finally shot dead. 

=== PAGE 124 ===
 
 
 
 112 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
11.  Yogas 
 
11.1 Introduction 
 
We have seen in previous chapters the use of divisional charts, houses, karakas, 
arudha padas, aspects and argalas. Using all these tools, we can interpret charts and 
draw various conclusions about a native’s fortune. 
 
In addition to these general guidelines, there are several specific combinations that 
give specific results. These are very important and called “Yogas”. Readers are 
advised to refer to classics such as “Brihat Parasara Hora Sastram” and acquaint 
themselves with as many yogas as possible. Dr. B.V. Raman’s “Three Hundred 
Important Combinations” is an excellent compendium on yogas. 
 
Some software programs list the yogas present in a chart. However, they are 
sometimes erroneous and one should be familiar with important yogas and be able to 
judge yogas by oneself, without relying on software. Many yogas are applicable in 
divisional charts. When we use yogas in divisional charts, we should interpret the 
results ascribed to a yoga based on the matters signified by the divisional chart. 
 
A few key yogas will be listed in this chapter, but the reader is urged to do more 
reading. In this book, yogas are divided into the following classes for convenience: 
 
• Ravi Yogas (solar combinations) 
• Chandra Yogas (lunar combinations) 
• Mahaapurusha Yogas (combinations producing 5 kinds of great men) 
• Naabhasa Yogas (classified celestial combinations) 
• Other Popular Yogas 
• Raaja Yogas (combinations giving power) 
• Raaja Sambandha Yogas (combinations for association with kings) 
• Dhana Yogas (combinations giving wealth) 
• Daridra Yogas (combinations giving poverty) 
 

=== PAGE 125 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
113 
 
 
 
11.2 Ravi Yogas 
 
Ravi yogas are the solar combinations. There are several yogas based on Sun. 
 
Because Mercury and Venus are with Sun or a sign away from him most of the time, 
the following yogas are very common in rasi chart. However, they are less common 
in divisional charts. One can apply these yogas in D-9 and D-10 in particular. 
 
11.2.1 
Vesi Yoga 
 
Definition: If there is a planet other than Moon in the 2nd house from Sun, then this 
yoga is present. For example, if Sun is in Gemini and Jupiter and Mercury are in 
Cancer, then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga has a balanced outlook. He is truthful, tall and 
sluggish. He is happy and comfortable even with little wealth. 
 
11.2.2 
Vosi Yoga 
 
Definition: If there is a planet other than Moon in the 12th house from Sun, then this 
yoga is present. For example, if Sun is in Aries and Jupiter and Venus are in Pisces, 
then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is skillful, charitable, famous, learned and strong. 
 
11.2.3 
Ubhayachara Yoga 
 
Definition: If there are planets other than Moon in the 2nd and 12th houses from Sun, 
then this yoga is present. For example, if Sun is in Cancer, Mars is in Leo and Venus 
is in Gemini, then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga has all comforts. He is a king or an equal. 
 
11.2.4 
Budha-Aaditya Yoga (Nipuna Yoga) 
 

=== PAGE 126 ===
 
 
 
 114 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Definition: Budha means Mercury, Aaditya means Sun and yoga means 
togetherness. If Sun and Mercury are together (in one sign), this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is intelligent and skillful in all works. He is well-
known, respected and happy. Nipuna means an expert. 
 
Note: If Mercury is too close to Sun, he is combust (asta or astangata). Yogas 
formed by combust planets lose some of their power to do good. This yoga is the 
most powerful in divisional charts like D-10. In rasi chart also, it can give results if 
Mercury is not combust. Suppose someone has Sun and Mercury together in Leo in 
D-10. Then that person has a powerful Budha-Aditya yoga in career. The results will 
be felt throughout one’s life and the periods of Sun, Mercury and Leo will give those 
results in particular. 
 
11.3 Chandra Yogas 
 
Chandra yogas are the lunar combinations. There are several yogas based on Moon. 
 
General Guidelines: 
 
(1) If Moon is in a quadrant from Sun, then one may possess little wealth, 
intelligence and skills. If Moon is in a panapara from Sun, then one may possess 
average wealth, intelligence and skills. If Moon is in an apoklima from Sun, then 
one may possess a lot of wealth, intelligence and skills. 
 
(2) If Moon is in own navamsa or that of an adhimitra (good friend), that is good. In 
such a situation, aspect of Jupiter on Moon beings wealth and comforts in the 
case of daytime birth (respectively). The same result is given by Venusian aspect 
on Moon in the case of night birth. On the other hand, Jupiter’s aspect on Moon 
in a night birth and Venusian aspect on Moon in a daytime birth are detrimental 
to one’s wealth and comforts. 
 
(3) If all the natural benefics occupy upachayas (3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th) from Moon, 
one has great wealth. If two benefics occupy upachayas from Moon, the native 
has medium wealth. If only one benefic occupies an upachaya from Moon, the 
native has little wealth. 
 

=== PAGE 127 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
115 
 
 
 
11.3.1 
Sunaphaa Yoga 
 
Definition: If there are planets other than Sun in the 2nd house from Moon, this yoga 
is present. For example, if Moon is in Gemini and Jupiter and Mercury are in Cancer, 
then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga becomes a king or an equal. He is intelligent, 
wealthy and famous. He has self-earned wealth. 
 
11.3.2 
Anaphaa Yoga 
 
Definition: If there are planets other than Sun in the 12th house from Moon, this 
yoga is present. For example, if Moon is in Aries and Jupiter and Venus are in 
Pisces, then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga becomes a king with good looks. His body is free 
from disease. He is a man of character and has great reputation. He is surrounded by 
comforts. 
 
11.3.3 
Duradhara Yoga 
 
Definition: If there are planets other than Sun in the 2nd and 12th houses from Moon, 
this yoga is present. For example, if Moon is in Cancer, Mars is in Leo and Venus is 
in Gemini, then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga enjoys many pleasures. He is charitable. He owns 
wealth and vehicles. He has good servants. 
 
11.3.4 
Kemadruma Yoga 
 
Definition: If there are no planets other than Sun in the 1st, 2nd and 12th houses from 
Moon and if there are no planets other than Moon in the quadrants from lagna, this 
bad yoga is present. For example, if lagna is in Taurus, Moon is in Virgo, no planets 
other than Sun in Leo, Virgo and Libra and no planets in Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and 
Aquarius, then this yoga is present. 
 

=== PAGE 128 ===
 
 
 
 116 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Results: One born with this yoga is unlucky, bereft of intelligence and learning and 
afflicted by poverty and trouble. This bad yoga kills the results of other good yogas 
in the chart, especially Chandra yogas. One with this yoga has to work hard and 
succeed through great efforts. 
 
11.3.5 
Chandra-Mangala Yoga 
 
Definition: If Moon and Mars are together (in one sign), then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is worldly wise and materially successful. He may 
earn money through unscrupulous means. He may treat mother or other women 
badly. 
 
11.3.6 
Adhi Yoga 
 
Definition: If the natural benefics occupy 6th, 7th and 8th from Moon, this yoga is 
present. For example, if Moon is in Taurus, Mercury and Jupiter in Virgo and Venus 
is Leo, then this yoga is present. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga becomes a king or a minister or an army chief, 
depending on the strength of the planets involved. 
 
11.4 Pancha Mahapurusha Yogas 
 
Pancha means five and mahapurusha means a great person. Pancha mahapurusha 
yogas give the combinations that produce 5 kinds of great persons. 
 
There are 5 basic elements of which this universe is made of. These are called 
pancha bhootas (five existences) or pancha tattvas (five natures). They are: 
 
• Agni tattva (fiery nature) 
• Bhoo tattva (earthy nature) 
• Vaayu tattva (airy nature) 
• Jala tattva (watery nature) 
• Aakaasa tattva (ethery nature) 
 

=== PAGE 129 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
117 
 
 
 
Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Venus and Jupiter (respectively) represent these 5 elements. 
Pancha mahapurusha yogas produce five kinds of great persons with one of these 5 
elements playing a predominant role in their personalities. 
 
11.4.1 
Ruchaka Yoga 
 
Definition: If Mars is in a quadrant in own sign or exaltation sign, it is called 
Ruchaka yoga. In other words, Mars should be in Ar, Sc or Cp and he should be in 
1st, 4th, 7th or 10th from lagna. This yoga does not apply from Moon and it applies 
mainly in rasi chart. As an example, a native with lagna in Li and Mars in Ar will 
have this yoga. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is a great man of fiery nature. He has a lot of 
enthusiasm. He is a natural leader. He loves to fight wars and he is victorious over 
enemies. He is discriminative and a devotee of learned people. He is well-versed in 
occult sciences. He has good taste. He is always successful. 
 
11.4.2 
Bhadra Yoga 
 
Definition: If Mercury is in a quadrant in own sign or exaltation sign, it is called 
Bhadra yoga. In other words, Mercury should be in Ge or Vi and he should be in 1st, 
4th, 7th or 10th from lagna. This yoga does not apply from Moon and it applies mainly 
in rasi chart. As an example, a native with lagna in Ge and Mercury in Vi will have 
this yoga. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is a great man of earthy nature. He is lion-like. He 
is learned in all respects. He has a good build of body and a deep voice. He has 
sattwa guna. He knows yoga well. He is always surrounded by relatives, friends and 
family and enjoys his wealth with them. He maintains cleanliness in everything and 
he is very systematic. He has a spirit of independence. He is religious. 
 
11.4.3 
Sasa Yoga 
 
Definition: If Saturn is in a quadrant in own sign or exaltation sign, it is called Sasa 
yoga. In other words, Saturn should be in Cp, Aq or Li and he should be in 1st, 4th, 7th 
or 10th from lagna. This yoga does not apply from Moon and it applies mainly in rasi 
chart. As an example, a native with lagna in Cp and Saturn in Li will have this yoga. 

=== PAGE 130 ===
 
 
 
 118 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Results: One born with this yoga is a great man of airy nature. He is rabbit-like29. He 
is wise and enjoys wandering. He is comfortable in forests, mountains and forts. He 
is valorous and has a slender build. He knows the weaknesses of others. He is lively, 
but has some vacillation. He is charitable. 
 
11.4.4 
Maalavya Yoga 
 
Definition: If Venus is in a quadrant in own sign or exaltation sign, it is called 
Malavya yoga. In other words, Venus should be in Ta, Li or Pi and he should be in 
1st, 4th, 7th or 10th from lagna. This yoga does not apply from Moon and it applies 
mainly in rasi chart. As an example, a native with lagna in Ge and Venus in Pi will 
have this yoga. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is a great man of watery nature. He emits a lustre 
akin to moonlight. He enjoys tasty food. He has luxuries. He has excellent health. He 
is well-versed in arts. 
 
11.4.5 
Hamsa Yoga 
 
Definition: If Jupiter is in a quadrant in own sign or exaltation sign, it is called 
Ruchaka yoga. In other words, Jupiter should be in Sg, Pi or Cn and he should be in 
1st, 4th, 7th or 10th from lagna. This yoga does not apply from Moon and it applies 
mainly in rasi chart. As an example, a native with lagna in Sg and Jupiter in Pi will 
have this yoga. 
 
Results: One born with this yoga is a great man of ethery nature. He is swan-like30. 
He has spiritual strength and purity. He is respected by everyone. He is very 
passionate. He becomes a king. He has all comforts. He enjoys life fully. He is a 
clever conversationalist and endowed with good speech. 
 
11.5 Naabhasa Yogas 
 
Naabhasa yogas are classified celestial combinations. These are classified as follows: 
                                                 
29 “Sasa” means a hare or a rabbit. 
30 “Hamsa” means a swan. 

=== PAGE 131 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
119 
 
 
 
 
Aasraya Yogas (3): Rajju, Musala and Nala yogas 
Dala Yogas (2): Maalaa, Sarpa yogas 
Aakriti Yogas (20): Gadaa, Sakata, Sringaataka, Vihangama, Hala, Vajra, Yava, 
Kamala, Vaapi, Yoopa, Sara, Sakti, Danda, Naukaa, Koota, Chatra, Chaapa, 
Ardhachandra, Chakra and Samudra yogas 
Sankhya Yogas (7): Veenaa, Daama, Paasa, Kedaara, Soola, Yuga and Gola yogas. 
 
Results of other yogas may be felt primarily during the dasas of the planets and signs 
involved. But the results of Naabhasa yogas are felt in all dasas. 
 
11.5.1 
Aasraya Yogas 
 
Aasraya means dwelling or asylum. Aasraya yogas are based on the signs occupied 
by planets. If all the planets are in movable signs or in fixed signs or in dual signs, 
these yogas arise. 
 
Rajju Yoga: If all the planets are exclusively in movable signs, this yoga is formed. 
One born with this yoga likes to travel. He has good looks and flourishes in foreign 
countries. He is cruel. Rajju means a rope. 
 
Musala Yoga: If all the planets are exclusively in fixed signs, this yoga is formed. 
One born with this yoga has honor, wisdom and wealth. Kings like him. He is 
famous. He has many children. He has a firm spirit. Musala means a pestle. 
 
Nala Yoga: If all the planets are exclusively in dual signs, this yoga is formed. One 
born with this yoga has a poor physique. He accumulates money. He has good looks 
and helps relatives. He is skillful. 
 
11.5.2 
Dala Yogas 
 
Maalaa Yoga: If three quadrants are occupied by natural benefics, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga is always happy. He has nice clothes, vehicles, 
luxuries and friendship of many women. Maalaa means a garland. 
 
If a malefic also occupies one of the quadrants, this yoga may not operate well. 
 

=== PAGE 132 ===
 
 
 
 120 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
As an example, let us say lagna is in Ar, Jupiter is in Cn, Venus is in Cp and 
Mercury is in Li. This gives Maalaa yoga. 
 
Sarpa Yoga: If three quadrants are occupied by natural malefics, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga is miserable, unhappy, cruel, poor and dependent on 
others for food. This is a very bad combination. Sarpa means a serpant. 
 
If a benefic also occupies one of the quadrants, this yoga may not operate well. 
 
As an example, let us say lagna is in Sc, Mars is in Ta, Rahu is in Le and Ketu is in 
Aq. This gives Sarpa yoga. 
 
11.5.3 
Aakriti Yogas 
 
Aakriti means a shape and the many of these yogas are based on the shape of the 
arrangement of planets in a chart. In all these yogas, Rahu and Ketu are not counted 
as planets by many authors. 
 
Gadaa Yoga: If all the planets occupy two successive quadrants from lagna, this 
yoga is formed. For example, this yoga is formed if all the planets occupy 4th and 7th 
(or 10th and 1st). One born with this yoga possesses wealth, gold and gems. He 
performs yajnas (sacrificial rites). He knows sastras (sciences) and songs. Gadaa 
means a mace or a bludgeon. 
 
Sakata Yoga: If all the planets occupy 1st and 7th houses from lagna, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga suffers from diseases. He has ugly nails. He is 
foolish. He doesn’t have friends and family. He lives pulling carts. Sakata means a 
cart. 
 
Vihanga Yoga: If all the planets occupy 4th and 10th houses from lagna, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga loves to wander. He works as a messenger. He likes 
sex. He has no shame and he likes to quarrel. Vihanga means a bird. Some authors 
call this Vihaga yoga. 
 
Sringaataka Yoga: If all the planets occupy trines (1st, 5th and 9th) from lagna, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga is happy and liked by kings. He has a noble 
wife and hates women. He is wealthy. Sringaataka means a cross-road junction. It 
has some other popular meanings too. 

=== PAGE 133 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
121 
 
 
 
 
Hala Yoga: If all the planets occupy mutual trines but not trines from lagna, this 
yoga is formed. In other words, if all the planets are in 2nd, 6th and 10th or if all the 
planets are in 3rd, 7th and 11th or if all the planets are in 4th, 8th and 12th, then this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga becomes a farmer. He eats a lot of food. He 
is poor. He is deserted by friends and relatives. He is unhappy and worried. Hala 
means a plough. 
 
Vajra Yoga: If lagna and the 7th houses are occupied by natural benefics and the 4th 
and 10th houses are occupied by natural malefics, this yoga is formed. One born with 
this yoga is happy in the early and late parts of life. He has valour. He is not 
fortunate, but he has no desires either. He fights. Vajra means a diamond. 
 
Yava Yoga: If lagna and the 7th houses are occupied by natural malefics and the 4th 
and 10th houses are occupied by natural benefics, this yoga is formed. One born with 
this yoga observes religious rules. He is happy in the middle part of life. He has 
wealth and good children. He is charitable. He is strong-minded. Yava means a grain 
among other things. 
 
Kamala Yoga: If all the planets are in quadrants from lagna, this yoga is formed. 
One born with this yoga becomes a king. He has a strong character. He is famous 
and long-lived. He is pure and performs many good deeds. Kamala means a lotus. 
 
Vaapi Yoga: If all the planets are panaparas or in apoklimas, this yoga is formed. 
One born with this yoga has a mind capable of amassing wealth. He has all comforts. 
He becomes a king. Vaapi means a pond or a water tank or a well. 
 
Yoopa Yoga: If all the planets are in 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th houses from lagna, this yoga 
is formed. One born with this yoga has spiritual knowledge and knowledge of yajnas 
(sacrificial rites). His wife is with him always. He has sattwa guna. He observes all 
the religious rules. Yoopa means a pillar and in particular a sacrificial post. 
 
Sara Yoga: If all the planets are in 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th houses from lagna, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga makes arrows. He heads prisons. He is a hunter. He 
eats meats. He tortures people. Sara means an arrow. 
 
Sakti Yoga: If all the planets are in 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th houses from lagna, this yoga 
is formed. One born with this yoga are unhappy, poor, unsuccessful, unworthy, lazy, 

=== PAGE 134 ===
 
 
 
 122 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
long-lived and firm. They have sharp minds in war. Sakti means energy and it is also 
a powerful weapon. 
 
Danda Yoga: If all the planets are in 10th, 11th, 12th and 1st houses from lagna, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga lose wife and children and their people will 
desert them. They are unhappy and serve mean people. Danda means a stick used to 
punish people. 
 
Naukaa Yoga: If all the planets occupy the 7 signs from lagna, this yoga is formed. 
One born with this yoga make money on things related to water. They have many 
desires. They are well-known. They are wicked, rough and miserly. Naukaa means a 
ship. 
 
Koota Yoga: If all the planets occupy the 7 signs from the 4th house, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga becomes a jailer. He is a liar. He lives in hills and 
forts. He is poor and cruel. Koota means a group. It has several other meanings. 
 
Chatra Yoga: If all the planets occupy the 7 signs from the 7th house, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga will help his people. He is kind and liked by many 
kings. He is intelligent. He is happy in the early and late parts of life. He is long-
lived. Chatra means an umbrella. 
 
Chaapa Yoga: If all the planets occupy the 7 signs from the 10th house, this yoga is 
formed. One born with this yoga becomes a liar, thief and a protector of secrets. He 
wanders in forests. He is unfortunate. He is happy in the middle part of his life. 
Chaapa means a bow. 
 
Ardha Chandra Yoga: If all the planets occupy the 7 signs starting from a panapara 
or an apoklima, this yoga is formed. One born with this yoga becomes an army chief. 
He has a good physique. Kings like him. He is strong and possesses gems, gold and 
many ornaments. Ardha Chandra means half-Moon. 
 
Chakra Yoga: If all the planets occupy 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th and 11th houses, this yoga 
is formed. One born with this yoga becomes a great emperor. Diamond-studded 
crowns of many kings touch his feet (i.e. many kings prostate before him). Chakra 
means a wheel. Chakravarti means an emperor. 
 

=== PAGE 135 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
123 
 
 
 
Samudra Yoga: If all the planets occupy 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 12th houses, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga owns a lot of wealth and many gems. He 
has luxuries. He likes people. Their fortune and greatness are stable. They are soft-
natured. Samudra means a sea or an ocean. Samudra is also the name of the God of 
Ocean, who has a lot of wealth and many gems with him.  
 
11.5.4 
Sankhya Yogas 
 
Sankhya means a number. Sankhya yogas are based on the number of distinct signs 
occupied by the seven planets combined. Rahu and Ketu are not included. As an 
example, let us take the chart of Lord Sri Rama (see Figure 1). The signs occupied 
by the seven planets are: Ar, Ta, Cn, Li, Cp and Pi. There are six signs. This forms 
Daama yoga, as can be seen below. 
 
These yogas apply if no other Naabhasa yogas mentioned previously are applicable 
in a chart. These are the least important of all Naabhasa yogas. 
 
Veenaa Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 7 distinct signs among them, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga likes music, dance and songs. He has many 
servants. He is wealthy, skillful and a leader of men. Veenaa is a stringed musical 
instrument. This is also called Vallaki yoga by some authors. 
 
Daama Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 6 distinct signs among them, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga is very rich and famous. He has many 
children. He has many gems. He helps others. Daama means a wreath. Some authors 
call this Daamini yoga. 
 
Paasa Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 5 distinct signs among them, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga has the risk of being imprisoned. He is 
capable in his work. He is talkataive. He has many servants. He lacks character. 
Paasa means a noose. 
 
Kedaara Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 4 distinct signs among them, 
this yoga is formed. One born with this yoga is an agriculturist. He is happy wealthy 
and helpful to others. Kedaara means a field. 
 

=== PAGE 136 ===
 
 
 
 124 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Soola Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 3 distinct signs among them, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga is sharp, lazy, violent, poor, prohibited and 
valiant. They win accolades in wars. Soola is Shiva’s weapon. 
 
Yuga Yoga: If the seven planets occupy exactly 2 distinct signs among them, this 
yoga is formed. One born with this yoga is a heretic. He is poor and discarded in the 
world. He is irrelegious. He has no happiness from children and mother. Yuga means 
a pair. 
 
Gola Yoga: If the seven planets are in one sign, this yoga is formed. One born with 
this yoga is strong, poor, dirty and uneducated. He is always sad. Gola means a 
sphere or a globe. 
 
11.6 Other Popular Yogas 
 
Some other important combinations will be listed below. Sometimes the results of a 
dasa may be felt even if all the required combinations are not present. But, for a yoga 
to be fully present, all the required combinations must be present and the 
participating planets must be strong. 
 
Subha Yoga: If lagna has benefics or has “subha kartari”31 – benefics in 12th and 2nd 
– then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga has eloquence, good looks and 
character. 
 
Asubha Yoga: If lagna has malefics or has “paapa kartari” – malefics in 12th and 2nd 
– then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga has many desires. He is sinful 
and enjoys the wealth of others. 
 
Gaja-Kesari Yoga: If (1) Jupiter is in a quadrant from Moon, (2) a benefic planet 
conjoins or aspects Juputer, and, (3) Jupiter is not debilitated or combust or in an 
enemy’s house, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is famous, wealthy 
                                                 
31 Kartari literally means “scissors”. The 12th and 2nd houses from a house cast kartari on it. If the 2nd 
and 12th from a house have benefics, it is said to have a subha (benefic) kartari. Malefics in the same 
places cause paapa (malefic) kartari. Subha kartari on any house does good to the matters of that 
house and paapa kartari does harm. Subha kartari and paapa kartari are also known as “subha kartari 
yoga” and “paapa kartari yoga” and they can be seen with reference to any house or planet. 

=== PAGE 137 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
125 
 
 
 
and intelligent. He has great character and he is liked by kings. For virtuousness and 
ever-lasting fame, this is a key yoga. 
 
Some authors consider Gaja-Kesari yoga to be present even when Jupiter is in a 
quadrant from lagna and not Moon. If he is strong, this yoga can be present even 
without a benefic’s aspect or conjunction. 
 
Guru-Mangala Yoga: If Jupiter and Mars are together or in the 7th house from each 
other, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is righteous and energetic. 
His energies are channelled in dharmic paths. 
 
Amala Yoga: If there are only natural benefics in the 10th house from lagna or 
Moon, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga has ever-lasting fame. He is 
respected by kings. He has luxuries and he is virtuous. He helps others. Amala means 
pure. Because the 10th house shows one conduct in society, situation of only benefics 
there makes one’s conduct in the society very pure. 
 
Parvata Yoga: If (1) quadrants are occupied only by benefics and (2) the 7th and 8th 
houses are either vacant or occupied only by benefics,  then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is fortunate, eloquent, famous, charitable, easy-going and likes 
humour. Parvata means a mountain. 
 
Kaahala Yoga: If (1) the 4th lord and Jupiter32 are in mutual quadrants and (2) lagna 
lord is strong, then this yoga is present. Alternately, this yoga is present if the 4th lord 
is exalted or in own sign and the 10th lord joins him. One born with this yoga is 
strong, bold, cunning and leads a large army. He owns a few villages. Kaahala means 
excessive. It also means mischievous. 
 
Chaamara Yoga: If the lagna lord is exalted in a quadrant with Jupiter’s aspect or 
two benefics join in 7th, 9th or 10th, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga 
is a king or someone respected by kings. He is long-lived, scholarly, eloquent and 
learned in many arts. Chaamara means something akin to the plume on the head of a 
horse. By waving it, servants give relief to kings from heat (like a fan). It basically 
stands for the trappings of power. 
 
                                                 
32 Some say “9th lord” instead of Jupiter 

=== PAGE 138 ===
 
 
 
 126 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Sankha Yoga: If (1) lagna lord is strong and (2) 5th and 6th lords are in mutual 
quadrants, then this yoga is present. Alternately, this yoga is present if (1) lagna lord 
and 10th lord are together in a movable sign and (2) the 9th lord is strong. One born 
with this yoga is blessed with wealth, spouse and children. He is kind, pious, 
intelligent and long-lived. Sankha means a conch shell. 
 
Bheri Yoga: If (1) the 9th lord is strong and (2) 1st, 2nd, 7th and 12th houses are 
occupied by planets, then this yoga is present. Alternately, this is yoga is present if 
(1) the 9th lord is strong and (2) Jupiter, Venus and lagna lord are in mutual 
quadrants. One born with this yoga is blessed with wealth, spouse and children. He 
can be a king. He has fame and character. He is virtuous and religious. He enjoys 
pleasures. Bheri means a kettledrum. 
 
Mridanga Yoga: If (1) there are planets in own and exaltation signs in quadrants 
and trines and (2) lagna lord is strong, then this yoga is present. One born with this 
yoga is a king or an equal and he is happy. Mridanga is a rich and elegant percussion 
instrument popular in south India. 
 
Sreenaatha Yoga: If (1) the 7th lord is exalted in 10th33 and (2) 10th lord is with 9th 
lord, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga becomes a great king equal to 
Indra – king of gods. Sreenaatha means the lord of great wealth and prosperity. It 
also means Vishnu. 
 
Matsya Yoga: If (1) benefics are in lagna and 9th, (2) some planets are in 5th, and, 
(3) malefics are in chaturasras (4th and 8th houses), then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga becomes an astrologer or a seer. He is a personification of 
kindness, character and intelligence. He is strong and good-looking. He is famous 
and learned. He is a tapasvi (austere pursuer). Matsya means a fish. 
 
Koorma Yoga: If (1) the 5th, 6th and 7th houses are occupied by benefics who are in 
own, exaltation or friendly signs and (2) the 1st, 3rd and 11th houses are occupied by 
malefics who are in own or exaltation signs, then this yoga is present. One born with 
this yoga becomes a king. He has piety and character. He is happy, helpful and 
famous. Koorma means a tortoise. 
 
                                                 
33 If this is to be applied strictly, 7th lord can be exalted in 10th only for Sagittarius lagna. 

=== PAGE 139 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
127 
 
 
 
Khadga Yoga: If (1) the 2nd lord is in the 9th house, (2) the 9th lord is in the 2nd 
house, and, (3) lagna lord is in a quadrant or a trine, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is skillful, wealthy, learned, happy, fortunate, intelligent, grateful 
and mighty. Khadga means a sword. 
 
Kusuma Yoga: If (1) lagna is in a fixed sign, (2) Venus is in a quadrant, (3) Moon is 
in a trine with a benefic, and, (4) Saturn is in the 10th house, then this yoga is present. 
One born with this yoga becomes a king or an equal. He is charitable. He is endowed 
with pleasures and happiness. He is a leader of his community. He has character and 
scholarship. Kusuma means a flower. 
 
Kalaanidhi Yoga: If (1) Jupiter is in the 2nd house or the 5th house and (2) he is 
conjoined or aspected by Mercury and Venus, then this yoga is present. One born 
with this yoga is endowed with character, happiness, good health, wealth and 
learning. He is respected by kings. Kalaanidhi means a treasure of arts and skills. 
 
Kalpadruma Yoga: Consider (1) lagna lord, (2) his dispositor, (3) the latter’s 
dispositor in rasi and (4) in navamsa. If all the four planets are all in quadrants, trines 
or exaltation signs, then this yoga is present. An example will make this clearer. 
 
One born with this yoga becomes a king. He likes wars34. He is very prosperous, 
principled, strong and kind. Kalpadruma is a celestial tree of the heaven. This yoga is 
also known as Paarijaata yoga. Paarijaata is a celestial flower. Some authors have 
simplified this yoga and wrote that one of the last two planets mentioned can bring 
the yoga if in a quadrant or a trine or exaltation sign. Taking all the four planets 
make this a less common yoga, which it ought to be. Let us follow Parasara. 
 
As an example, let us look at the rasi and navamsa charts of Chatrapati Shivaji, a 
great king of India (see Chart 9). Lagna lord is Sun. He is in Aq and his dispositor is 
Saturn (lord of Aq). Saturn is in Li and his dispositor is Venus. We also need 
Saturn’s dispositor in navamsa. In navamsa, Saturn is in Aq and his dispositor is 
Saturn himself. 
  
                                                 
34 This is not meant negatively. War and curbing bad elements are a king’s duty. The results of this 
yoga include the words “principled” and “kind”. So the expression “likes wars” (yuddhapriyah) 
should be taken in a positive sense. Shivaji’s example may explain it further. 

=== PAGE 140 ===
 
 
 
 128 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Chart 9 
 
 
Thus we get the four planets as — Sun, Saturn, Venus and Saturn. Sun is in a 
quadrant. Saturn is exalted. Venus is in a trine. Thus Shivaji had Kalpadruma yoga. 
In navamsa also, Sun is exalted, Saturn is in moolatrikona and Venus is in a lagna. 

=== PAGE 141 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
129 
 
 
 
This makes the yoga even more powerful. He was indeed a prosperous, principled, 
strong and kind king ever ready to take on powerful enemies. Even as he was 
fighting mighty Muslim emperors, he was open-minded and treated all his people 
equally. He respected every woman as a mother. He stood for every good thing that 
Hindu culture represented. About 400 years after his birth, name of this “dharma 
veera” (virtuous warrior) still inspires awe in Indians in general and Maharashtrians 
in particular. 
 
Lagnaadhi Yoga: If (1) the 7th and 8th houses from lagna are occupied by benefics 
and (2) no malefics conjoin or aspect these planets, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga becomes a great person. He is learned and happy. Adhi means 
over or above. We have already seen Adhi Yoga among Chandra yogas. Lagnaadhi 
yoga means Adhi Yoga from lagna. 
 
Hari Yoga: If benefics occupy the 2nd, 12th and 8th houses counted from the 2nd lord, 
then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is happy, learned and blessed with 
wealth and children. Hari is a name of Lord Vishnu. The 2nd house is the house of 
food and money and it is a trine from karma sthana – the 10th house. It stands for 
sustenance and its lord represents Hari – Sustainer of Hindu Trinity – in a chart. 
 
Hara Yoga: If benefics occupy the 4th, 9th and 8th houses counted from the 7th lord, 
then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is happy, learned and blessed with 
wealth and children. Hara is a name of Lord Shiva. The 7th house rules death and 
Shiva is represented by its lord. This is why the 7th house shows genitalia and Shiva 
is worshipped in the form of a Linga – Phallus – in Hindu temples. 
 
Brahma Yoga: If benefics occupy the 4th, 10th and 11th houses counted from lagna 
lord, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is happy, learned and blessed 
with wealth and children. Brahma is the creator of this universe. Lagna rules birth 
and the Creator is represented in a chart by lagna lord. 
 
NOTE: (1) Some authors combine Hari yoga, Hara yoga and Brahma yoga and call it 
“Hari Hara Brahma yoga”. Also, these three yogas are known as Trimurthi Yogas. 
Brahma is the Creator; Hari is the Sustainer; and, Shiva is the Destroyer. They form 
the Trinity of Gods (Trimurthis). 
 

=== PAGE 142 ===
 
 
 
 130 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(2) There is another variation of Brahma yoga: “If (1) Jupiter is in a quadrant from 
the 9th lord, (2) Venus is in a quadrant from the 11th lord, and, (3) Mercury is in a 
quadrant from the 1st lord or 10th lord, then this yoga is present.” 
 
Vishnu Yoga: If (1) the 9th and 10th lords are in the 2nd house and (2) the lord of the 
sign occupied in navamsa by the 9th lord in rasi chart is also in the 2nd house, then 
this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is fortunate, learned, long-lived and 
liked by kings. He is a worshipper of Vishnu. 
 
Siva Yoga: If (1) the 5th lord is in the 9th house, (2) the 9th lord is in the 10th house, 
and, (3) the 10th lord is in the 5th house, then this yoga is present. One born with this 
yoga is wise and virtuous. He is a conqueror. He can be an army chief or a 
businessman. Lord Siva is one of the Trinity of Gods. 
 
Trilochana Yoga: If Sun, Moon and Mars are in mutual trines, then this yoga is 
present. One born with this yoga is wealthy, intelligent, long-lived and victorious 
over enemies. He achieves everything without many obstacles. Trilochana means 
“one  with three eyes”. It is another name of Lord Siva, who has a hidden eye in His 
forehead. 
 
Gouri Yoga: If the lord of the sign occupied in navamsa by the 10th lord is exalted in 
the 10th house and lagna lord joins him, then this yoga is present. One born with this 
yoga is from a respectable family and he is religious and virtuous. He is blessed with 
happiness from family. Gouri is a form of Parvati – Lord Siva’s wife. She is an 
epitome of marital bliss and purity. 
 
Chandikaa Yoga: If (1) lagna is in a fixed sign aspected by 6th lord and (2) Sun 
joins the lords of the signs occupied in navamsa by 6th and 9th lords, then this yoga is 
present. One born with this yoga is aggressive, charitable, wealthy, famous and long-
lived. Chandika is an aggressive form of Parvati. She kills demons mercilessly. 
 
Lakshmi Yoga: If (1) the 9th lord is in an own sign or in his exaltation sign that 
happens to be quadrant from lagna and (2) lagna lord is strong, then this yoga is 
present. One born with this yoga becomes a king. He is blessed with good looks, 
character, wealth and many children. He is principled and famous. Lakshmi is 
Vishnu’s wife. She is the goddess of prosperity. 
 

=== PAGE 143 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
131 
 
 
 
Saarada Yoga: If (1) the 10th lord is in the 5th house, (2) Mercury is in a quadrant, 
(3) Sun is strong in Leo, (4) Mercury or Jupiter is in a trine from Moon, and, (5) 
Mars is in 11th, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is blessed with 
wealth, spouse and children. He is happy, learned, principled and liked by kings. He 
is a tapaswi (autere pursuer of knowledge). Saarada is another name of Saraswathi, 
the goddess of learning. 
 
Bhaarathi Yoga: If the lord of the sign occupied in navamsa by 2nd, 5th or 11th lord 
exalted and joins the 9th lord, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is a 
great scholar. He is intelligent, religious, good-looking and famous. Bhaarathi is 
another name of Saraswathi, the goddess of learning. 
 
Saraswathi Yoga: If (1) each of Mercury, Jupiter and Venus occupies a quadrant or 
a trine or the 2nd house (not necessarily together) and (2) Jupiter is in an own or 
friendly or exaltation sign, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is very 
learned, skillful, intelligent, rich and famous. He is praised by all. Saraswathi is the 
goddess of learning. 
 
Amsaavatara Yoga: If Jupiter, Venus and exalted Saturn are in quadrants, then this 
yoga is present. One born with this yoga becomes a king or an equal. He is learned 
and pleasure-loving. He has unsullied reputation. Amsaavatara means one who is an 
incarnation of a part of the Lord. 
 
Devendra Yoga: If (1) lagna is in a fixed sign, (2) 2nd and 10th lords have an 
exchange35, and, (3) lagna and 11th lords have an exchange, then this yoga is present. 
One born with this yoga is a leader of men. He is handsome, romantic, long-lived 
and famous. Devendra is the ruler of gods. 
 
Indra Yoga: If (1) the 5th and 11th lords have an exchange and (2) Moon occupies 
the 5th house, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga becomes a king. He 
is bold, famous and long-lived. Indra is the ruler of gods. 
 
Ravi Yoga: If (1) Sun is in the 10th house and (2) the 10th lord is in the 3rd house 
with Saturn, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is learned, passionate 
and respected by kings. Ravi means Sun. 
                                                 
35 That means that the 2nd lord is in the 10th house and the 10th lord is in the 2nd house. Exchange is 
called “parivartana” in Sanskrit. 

=== PAGE 144 ===
 
 
 
 132 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Bhaaskara Yoga: If (1) Moon is in the 12th from Sun, (2) Mercury is in the 2nd from 
Sun, and, (3) Jupiter is in the 5th or 9th from Moon, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is wealthy, valorous and aristocratic. He is learned in sastras, 
astrology and music. He has a good personality. Bhaaskara means “one with bright 
rays”. It is a name of Sun. 
 
Kulavardhana Yoga: If each planet occupies the 5th house from either lagna or 
Moon or Sun, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is happy, wealthy 
and brings name to his lineage and community. He has an unbroken line of worthy 
successors. Kula means “lineage or community”. Vardhana means “one who makes 
it grow and prosper”. 
 
Vasumati Yoga: If benefics occupy upachayas, then this yoga is present. For it to 
give full results, malefics should not occupy upachayas and the benefics occupying 
upachayas should be strong. One born with this yoga has abundant wealth. Vasumati 
means earth. 
 
Gandharva Yoga: If (1) the 10th lord is in a trine from the 7th house, (2) lagna lord 
is conjoined or aspected by Jupiter, (3) Sun is exalted and strong, and, (4) Moon is in 
the 9th house, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is skillful and 
famous in fine arts. Gandharvas are a class of gods with excellent skills in singing 
and other fine arts. 
 
Go Yoga: If (1) Jupiter is strong in his moolatrikona, (2) the lord of the 2nd house is 
with Jupiter, and, (3) lagna lord is exalted, then this yoga is present. One born with 
this yoga is from a respectable family. He is wealthy and resepcted by all. Go means 
a cow. 
 
Vidyut Yoga: If (1) the 11th lord is in deep exaltation, (2) he joins Venus, and, (3) 
the two of them are in a quadrant from lagna lord, then this yoga is present. One born 
with this yoga becomes a king or an equal. He is wealthy, pleasure-loving and 
charitable. Vidyut means a lightning bolt or electricity. 
 
Chapa Yoga: If (1) the 4th and 10th lords have an exchange and (2) lagna lord is 
exalted, then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga works for a king and 
commands a lot of wealth. Chapa means a bow. 
 

=== PAGE 145 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
133 
 
 
 
Pushkala Yoga: If (1) lagna lord is with Moon, (2) dispositor of Moon is in a 
quadrant or in the house of an adhimitra (good friend), (2) dispositor of Moon 
aspects lagna, and, (4) there is a planet in lagna, then this yoga is present. One born 
with this yoga is eloquent, wealthy,  famous and respected by kings. Pushkala means 
abundant. 
 
Makuta Yoga: If (1) Jupiter is in the 9th house from the 9th lord, (2) the 9th house 
from Jupiter has a benefic, and, (3) Saturn is in the 10th house, then this yoga is 
present. One born with this yoga is a powerful leader of men. He often manages 
unruly activities. Makuta means crown. 
 
Jaya Yoga: If (1) the 10th lord is in deep exaltation and (2) the 6th lord is debilitated, 
then this yoga is present. One born with this yoga is happy, successful, victorious 
over enemies and long-lived. Jaya means victorious. 
 
Harsha Yoga: If the 6th lord occupies the 6th house, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is happy, strong, good-natured and invincible. Harsha means 
joyous. 
 
Sarala Yoga: If the 8th lord occupies the 8th house, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is long-lived, fearless, learned, celebrated and prosperous. He is 
a terror to his enemies. Sarala means straight-forward. 
 
Vimala Yoga: If the 12th lord occupies the 12th house, then this yoga is present. One 
born with this yoga is noble, frugal, happy and independent. Vimala means pure. 
 
11.7 Raaja Yogas  
 
Raaja means a king. Raaja yogas are the combinations that give power and 
prosperity to a native. They make one the best in something. 
 
11.7.1 
Basics 
 
Basic Raaja Yoga: In any chart, Lord Vishnu sits in the quadrants and Goddess 
Lakshmi sits in the trines. If the lord of a quadrant is associated with the lord of a 

=== PAGE 146 ===
 
 
 
 134 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
trine, that association brings the combined blessings of Lakshmi and Vishnu. This is 
called a Raaja Yoga. The native is powerful and prosperous. 
 
What do we mean by “association” here? There are 3 important associations: 
 
(1) The two planets are conjoined, 
(2) The two planets aspect each other with graha drishti, or, 
(3) The two planets have a parivartana (exchange). For example, if the 4th lord is in 
the 5th house and the 5th lord is in the 4th house, then we say that there is a 
parivartana between the 4th and 5th lords. This is an association. 
 
If the lord of a quadrant and the lord of a trine have one of the three kinds of 
associations mentioned above, it forms a Raaja Yoga. Lagna can be taken as a 
quadrant or a trine here. It is both. 
 
Dharma-Karmadhipati Yoga: This is a special case of the above yoga. If the lords 
of dharma sthana (9th) and karma sthana (10th) form a raja yoga, it is known by this 
special name. The 9th house is the most important trine and the 10th house is the most 
important quadrant. Raja yoga involving the lords of these two houses is excellent. 
One born with this yoga is sincere, devoted and righteous. He is fortunate and. 
 
Vipareeta Raaja Yoga: The 6th, 8th and 12th houses are known as trik sthanas or 
dusthanas (bad houses). If their lords occupies dusthanas or conjoin dusthanas, it 
results in this yoga. One having this yoga experiences tremedous success, typically 
after an initial struggle. Vipareeta means extreme. 
 
Because dusthanas show the obstacles one faces in life, situation of dusthana lords in 
dusthanas shows that obstacles will run into obstacles themselves. One experiences 
tremendous success in the face of obstacles. 
 
In the ideal case, the lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th houses will all be together in one of 
the three houses (or the 3rd house or the 11th house), with no other planets conjoining 
them. But the results of this yoga may be experienced with just one or two dusthana 
lords occupying a dusthana. 
 
11.7.2 
Magnitude of a Raaja Yoga 
 

=== PAGE 147 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
135 
 
 
 
We find the conjunction of the lords of a quadrant and a trine in many charts. The 
magnitude to which this raaja yoga fructifies depends on the strength of the two 
planets. The key factors that come into play are: 
 
(1) The two planets should be free from afflictions from functional malefics. 
(2) The conjunction or aspect responsible for the Raaja Yoga should be close (say, 
within 6° or so). 
If Mercury and Venus are at 2° and 26° in Ta for a native with Cp lagna, for 
example, their conjunction brings a Raaja Yoga (Dharma-Karmadhipati Yoga in 
particular). However, the two planets are too far apart for this yoga to give its full 
results. They are still associated, but the association is not very strong. If Venus 
is at 3° in Ta in instead of 26°, the conjunction is very close and the yoga can 
give its full results, if other factors are favorable. 
 
(3) The two planets should not be combust, debilitated or in an inimical house or in 
bad avasthas (states). 
 
Any blemishes here will considerably reduce the magnitude of the yoga. In addition 
to the above factors, Sage Parasara recommended looking at the amsas occupied by 
the 2 planets as per Dasa Varga (ten division) scheme. Count the divisional charts – 
out of the ten charts of Dasa Varga scheme – in which a planet occupies an own, 
exaltation or moolatrikona sign. Based on the count of divisional charts with such a 
good placement for the planet in question, we say that it is in a particular amsa. 
Please see the chapter “Divisional Charts” for details. 
 
If the two planets giving raaja yoga have a count of one or zero, the yoga is ordinary 
and gives good results depending on the factors already outlined. 
 
If the two planets are in Paarijaataamsa (count of 2), then one becomes a king who 
rules his people well. If the two planets are in Uttamsaamsa (count of 3), then one 
becomes a good king with tremendous assets. If the two planets are in Gopuraamsa 
(count of 4), then one becomes a great king respected by many kings. 
 
If the two planets are in Simhaasanaamsa (count of 5), then one becomes a great 
emperor who rules the whole world. Parasara said that several great emperors of 

=== PAGE 148 ===
 
 
 
 136 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Indian mythology – like Harischandra, Manu, Bali, Vaiswaanara, Yudhisthira (also 
known as Dharmaraja) and Saalivaahana36 – were born with this combination. 
 
Two planets giving Raaja Yoga can be in Paaraavataamsa (count of 6), Devalokamsa 
(count of 7), Brahmalokaamsa (count of 8) and Airaavataamsa (count of 9) only for 
divine persons such as Svaayambhuva Manu (Manu who was born by Himself), 
Brahma (Creator!!) and Vishnu’s incarnations such as Sri Rama and Sri Krishna. 
 
Final Judgment: None of the above factors influences the end result completely. 
We should look at all the factors and make the final judgment. 
 
Chart 10 
 
 
India’s former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi37 had lagna lord Sun and 5th lord Jupiter 
in lagna giving a Raaja Yoga. Both were in Simhaasanaamsa. However, they were 
                                                 
36 Saalivaahana was yet to be born when Parasara wrote his classic “Brihat Paaraasara Horaa 
Saastram”. He referred Dharmaraja of Mahabharata as “King Yudhisthira of this Yuga” and made a 
prediction about the birth of Saalivaahana with Raaja Yoga giving planets in Simhaasanaamsa. 
37 Birthdata: August 20, 1944, 7:11:40 am (IST), 72 E 49, 18 N 58 

=== PAGE 149 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
137 
 
 
 
more than 8° apart38 and functional malefics were with them. Saturn had a very close 
aspect on Jupiter. So the Yoga is pretty weak. However, the two planets are in 
Simhasanamsa and that raises the level of the Yoga. In the end, he only became 
India’s prime minister and not an “emperor of the whole world”. 
 
Let us look at India’s emperor Akbar39 (see Chart 10). His chart has Libra lagna. 
Lagna lord Venus and 4th and 5th lord Saturn are in lagna. They give Mahapurusha 
yogas (Maalavya and Sasa) as well as a Raja Yoga. Moon and Mercury own 10th and 
9th and they have a close aspect. They also form a Raja Yoga. But they are not even 
in Paarijaataamsa. Venus and Saturn are only in Uttamaamsa and Paarijaataamsa. 
 
However, Venus and Saturn are very strong and take part in other Yogas. Both the 
Raja Yogas are very close. Venus and Saturn are less than a degree apart. They are 
afflicted by a functional malefic (Jupiter), but Jupiter is 22° away from them. 
Moreover, lord of GL is Mars and he gives another Mahapurusha Yoga – Ruchaka 
Yoga – and he is in Simhasanamsa. 
 
Due to all these reasons, Akbar was a great emperor of India although Raja Yoga 
giving planets weren’t in Simhaasanaamsa. We should always make the final 
judgment after looking at all the factors. 
 
11.7.3 
More Raja Yogas 
 
Some advanced Raaja Yogas will be listed below. 
 
(1) 
If (a) chara putra karaka (PK) and chara atmaka karaka (AK) are conjoined and 
(b) lagna and 5th lords conjoin, then Raaja Yoga is present and the native 
enjoys power and prosperity. If only one condition is satisfied, still the results 
may be felt, but not fully. 
(2) 
If (a) lagna lord is in 5th, (b) 5th lord is in lagna, (c) AK and PK are in lagna or 
the 5th house, and (d) those planets in owns rasi or amsa or in exaltation or 
aspected by benefics, then this yoga is present and the native becomes a great 
king (Maharajah) loved by his associates. 
                                                 
38 Anything greater than 5 or 6 degrees is too large for a Raaja Yoga to give its full results. 
39 Birthdata: December 4, 1542, 3:39 am (LMT), 69 E 47, 25 N 19. This date may be written by some 
as November 24, 1542 based on the old calendar. 

=== PAGE 150 ===
 
 
 
 138 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(3) 
If the 9th lord and AK are in lagna, 5th or 7th, aspected by benefics, then Raaja 
Yoga is present. 
(4) 
If the 2nd, 4th and 5th houses from lagna lord and AK are occupied by benefics, 
one becomes a king. 
(5) 
If the 3rd and 6th houses from lagna lord and AK are occupied or aspected by 
malefics, one becomes a king. 
(6) 
If lagna, HL and GL are joined or aspected by the same planet, then that planet 
gives a Raaja Yoga. One may add “owned” to “joined or aspected”. 
Planets aspecting or joining HL and GL give wealth and power respectively. If 
such a planet is associated with lagna also, its potential to do good increases. 
Results of this yoga may be experienced if the conditions are not strictly met, 
but a planet has an association with lagna (or lagna lord), HL (or HL lord) and 
GL (or GL lord). Association here can mean ownership, conjunction or aspect. 
If lagna lord is in HL and aspects GL lord, for example, results of this Raaja 
Yoga may be experienced to some extent.  
(7) 
If the same planet aspects lagna in the six divisional charts of shad vargas – 
Rasi, Navamsa, Hora, Drekkana, Dwadasamsa, Trimsamsa – then that planet 
gives a Raaja Yoga. 
(8) 
If lagna, HL and GL are occupied by a planet in own or exaltation sign, then 
the native becomes a king. [NOTE: It can be different planets.] 
(9) 
If lagna in Rasi, Navamsa and Drekkana charts is occupied by a planet in own 
or exaltation sign, then the native becomes a king. [NOTE: It can be different 
planets.] 
(10) If (a) the 3rd, 6th and 8th houses are occupied by one or two planets in 
debilitation and (b) lagna lord is in an own or exaltation sign and aspects lagna, 
it forms a Raaja Yoga. 
(11) If (a) the 6th, 8th and 12th lords are debilitated or combust or in inimical signs 
and (b) lagna lord is in an own or exaltation sign and aspects lagna, it forms a 
Raaja Yoga. 

=== PAGE 151 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
139 
 
 
 
(12) If the 5th and 9th lords are in a conjunction or a mutual aspect, it makes one 
prosperous. 
(13) If (a) the 4th lord is in the 10th house and the 10th lord is in the 4th house and (b) 
both of them are aspected by the 5th lord or the 9th lord, then a Raaja Yoga is 
formed. 
(14) If (a) the 5th lord is in the 1st, 4th or 10th house and (b) lagna lord or the 9th lord 
joins him, then the native becomes a king. 
(15) If (a) Moon is strong and occupies vargottamamsa40 and (b) four or more 
planets aspect him, then one becomes a king. 
(16) If 4 or more planets occupy moolatrikonas or exaltation signs, one becomes a 
king even if he is from a lowly family. 
(17) If benefics are in quadrants and malefics are in the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses, one 
becomes a king even if he is from a lowly family. 
(18) If  arudha lagna and darapada (arudha pada of the 7th house) are not in mutual 
2nd/12th or 6th/8th positions, then Raja Yogas in the chart will be more effective. 
 
11.8 Raaja Sambandha Yogas 
 
Raaja means a king. Sambandha means relation or association. Raaja sambandha 
yogas are the combinations that give association with rulers. Those who have thse 
yogas are typically powerful ministers, secretaries, counsellors and bureaucrats, 
associated with the rulers and powerful men. However, these yogas are very 
common. The magnitude of success depends on the strength of the planets involved 
in raja yoga. 
 
(1) 
If the 10th lord is conjoined or aspected by AmK (chara amaatya kaaraka) or his 
dispositor, one becomes an important person in the court of a king. 
                                                 
40 A planet is in vargottamaamsa if it occupies the same sign in Rasi and Navamsa charts. 

=== PAGE 152 ===
 
 
 
 140 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(2) 
If the 11th lord aspects the 11th house and there are no malefic planets joining or 
aspecting the 10th and 11th houses, one becomes an important person in the 
court of a king. 
(3) 
If AK (chara aatma kaaraka) and AmK conjoin, one is very intelligent and 
becomes a minister. 
(4) 
If AmK is very strong in own sign or his exaltation sign, then also one becomes 
a minister. 
(5) 
If AmK is in a trine from lagna, one becomes a famous minister. 
(6) 
If AmK is in a quadrant or a trine from AK, one is an associate liked by a king. 
(7) 
If malefics occupy the 3rd and 6th houses from lagna, AL and AK, then one 
becomes a powerful chief of army. 
(8) 
If AK is in an own or exaltation sign in a quadrant or a trine and the 9th lord is 
conjoined or aspected by AK, one becomes a minister. 
(9) 
If AK happens to be Moon’s dispositor and he occupies lagna along with a 
benefic, one becomes a minister at an old age. 
(10) If AK is in the 5th,7th, 9th or 10th houses with a benefic, one will be associated 
with kings and earn money thus. 
(11) If bhagyapada (A9 – arudha pada of the 9th house) is in lagna or AK is in 9th, 
one is fortunate and associates with kings. 
(12) If the 11th lord is in the 11th house without aspects from any malefics and AK is 
with benefics, then one has gains from a king. 
(13) If lagna lord is in the 10th house and the 10th lord is in lagna, one is powerful 
and associated with kings. 
(14) If Moon and Venus are in the 4th house from AK, one is endowed with royal 
insignia. 
(15) If lagna lord or AK conjoins the 5th lord in a quadrant or a trine, one becomes a 
king’s friend. 

=== PAGE 153 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
141 
 
 
 
 
11.9 Dhana Yogas 
 
Dhana means wealth. Dhana yogas are combinations that give one abundant riches. 
 
Basic Principle: The 5th and 9th lords and planets joining them are capable of giving 
money. They give dasas in their dasas. The 11th house is also important for material 
gains and it should be strong. The 2nd house is also important. If Moon, Mercury, 
Jupiter or Venus is exalted in the 2nd house, it makes the native very rich. 
 
In addition to these general principles, Parasara listed specific combinations for 
various lagnas. In all these combinations, the strength of the participating planets 
decides the magnitude of results experienced. 
 
(1) 
For Ar lagna: If Sun is in the 5th house and Saturn, Moon and Jupiter are in 
the 11th house, one becomes very affluent. If Mars occupies lagna conjoined or 
aspected by Mercury, Venus and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 
(2) 
For Ta lagna: If Mercury is in the 5th house and Moon, Mars and Jupiter are in 
the 11th house, one becomes very affluent. If Venus occupies lagna conjoined 
or aspected by Mercury and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 
(3) 
For Ge lagna: If Venus is in the 5th house and Mars is in the 11th house, one 
becomes very affluent. If Mercury occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by 
Jupiter and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 
(4) 
For Cn lagna: If Mars is in the 5th house and Venus is in the 11th house, one 
becomes very affluent. If Moon occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by 
Mercury and Jupiter, then also one becomes very rich. 
(5) 
For Le lagna: If Jupiter is in the 5th house and Mercury is in the 11th house, 
one becomes very affluent. If Sun occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by 
Mars and Jupiter, then also one becomes very rich. 
(6) 
For Vi lagna: If Saturn is in the 5th house and Sun and Moon are in the 11th 
house, one becomes very affluent. If Mercury occupies lagna conjoined or 
aspected by Jupiter and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 

=== PAGE 154 ===
 
 
 
 142 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(7) 
For Li lagna: If Saturn is in the 5th house and Sun and Moon are in the 11th 
house, one becomes very affluent. If Venus occupies lagna conjoined or 
aspected by Mercury and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 
(8) 
For Sc lagna: If Jupiter is in the 5th house and Mercury is in the 11th house, 
one becomes very affluent. If Mars occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by 
Mercury, Venus and Saturn, then also one becomes very rich. 
(9) 
For Sg lagna: If Mars is in the 5th house and Venus is in the 11th house, one 
becomes very affluent. If Jupiter occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by Mars 
and Mercury, then also one becomes very rich. 
(10) For Cp lagna: If Venus is in the 5th house and Mars is in the 11th house, one 
becomes very affluent. If Saturn occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by Mars 
and Jupiter, then also one becomes very rich. 
(11) For Aq lagna: If Mercury is in the 5th house and Moon, Mars and Jupiter are in 
the 11th house, one becomes very affluent. If Saturn occupies lagna conjoined 
or aspected by Mars and Jupiter, then also one becomes very rich. 
(12) For Pi lagna: If Moon is in the 5th house and in the 11th house, one becomes 
very affluent. If Jupiter occupies lagna conjoined or aspected by Mars and 
Mercury, then also one becomes very rich. 
 
11.10 Daridra Yogas 
 
One experiences poverty if the following yogas (combinations) are present in one’s 
chart: 
 
(1) Lagna lord is in 12th and 12th lord is in lagna. They are conjoined or aspected by 
a maraka planet. 
 
NOTE: The 2nd and 7th houses are maraka (killer houses). Their lords are marakas 
(killers). Any malefics occupying 2nd and 7th or associating with 2nd and 7th lords 
also become malefics.  
 
(2) Lagna lord is in 6th and 6th lord is in lagna. They are conjoined or aspected by a 
maraka planet. 

=== PAGE 155 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
143 
 
 
 
 
(3) Lagna or Moon is with Ketu. Lagna lord is in 8th. A maraka planet conjoins or 
aspects lagna lord. 
 
(4) Lagna lord is with a malefic in a dusthana (6th, 8th or 12th) and 2nd lord is 
debilitated or in an enemy’s sign. Even a royal scion with this combination 
becomes poor. 
 
(5) The 5th lord is in 6th and 9th lord is in 12th, with aspects from marakas. 
 
(6) Malefics occupy lagna without 9th and 10th lords, aspected or conjoined by 
marakas. 
 
(7) Lords of the signs occupied by 6th, 8th and 12th lords are in 6th, 8th and 12th 
houses, conjoined or aspected by malefics. 
 
(8) Lord of the sign occupied by Moon in navamsa is with a maraka or occupies a 
maraka house (2nd and 7th). 
 
(9) Lords of lagna in rasi and navamsa are conjoined or aspected by marakas. 
 
(10) Benefics are in malefic houses and malefics are in benefic houses. 
 
(11) Planets conjoined by 6th, 8th and 12th lords give loss of wealth in their dasas, if 
they are not conjoined or aspected by the lords of trines. 
 
(12) Mars and Saturn are in 2nd and Mercury doesn’t aspect them. (Exception: If 
Mercury aspects Mars and Saturn in 2nd, great wealth is generated.) 
 
(13) Sun in 2nd is aspected by Saturn. (Exception: If Saturn doesn’t aspect, Sun in 2nd 
gives wealth.) 
 
The general principles emerging from the above combinations are: 
 
Dusthanas (6th, 8th and 12th) and their lords are detrimental to wealth. If lagna, lagna 
lord and trine lords are afflicted by them, one may be poor. Conjunction or aspect of 
marakas clinches the issue. However, conjunction or aspect of trine lords is a saving 
factor. In addition, the planets in the 2nd house and the strength of 2nd lord matter. 

=== PAGE 156 ===
 
 
 
 144 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
11.11 Conclusion 
 
A lot of combinations and results have been given in this chapter. Readers are 
advised to read more literature and practice yogas on real charts. One should be able 
to find with a quick glance the yogas present in a chart. Experience certainly helps 
there. In the rest of this book, we will see some examples of yogas. 
 
When looking at the results ascribed to various yogas, try to fit them in today’s 
world. For example, one with Kamala yoga may not really become a king, but 
probably become the Prime Minister of a nation or the Governor of a state. When 
using yogas in divisional charts, adapt the results to the matters signified by the 
chart. 
 
All the great results ascribed to some yogas may not materialize in reality, due to 
weaknesses in them. Unless a yoga is very strong, all the results cannot expected. 
Just one yoga cannot make or break a personality, unless it is very powerful. 
 
In the case of yogas with many conditions, partial results may sometimes be 
experienced if all the conditions are not satisfied. 
 

=== PAGE 157 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
145 
 
 
 
12.  Ashtakavarga 
 
12.1 Introduction 
 
Analyzing a chart and making correct predictions requires mixing many different 
principles and making fine compromises and judgments. Sage Parasara said that it is 
difficult for even great Maharshis. In Kali Yuga41, human beings become sinful and 
the sins kill their intelligence. Parasara said that the intellectual pygmies of Kali 
Yuga cannot cope with too many complicated principles and presented ashtakavarga 
as a simple technique that lets them make reasonable predictions without much fuss. 
Ashtaka means “consisting of eight” and varga means “a group”. Ashtakavarga is the 
system of analyzing a chart with respect to a group of 8 reference points. 
 
When we analyze the positions of planets with respect to lagna, we have the concept 
of good and bad placements. For example, Jupiter in the 9th from lagna will be well 
placed and Jupiter in the 3rd will be badly placed. Mars in the 3rd from lagna will be 
well placed and Mars in the 9th will be badly placed. 
 
However, lagna is not the only reference point in a chart. We have Sun and Moon. In 
fact, all the planets serve as reference points in a chart and they represent the sources 
of various energies that are present in a native. Based on the houses in which 
different planets are placed in transit, they can be benefic with respect to some 
energy sources and malefic with respect to some. If a transiting planet is benefic with 
respect to more energy sources, then it brings good results. 
 
So ashtakavarga is essentially a system that tells us the benefic positions of lagna and 
seven planets with respect to each other. This can be used to analyze the strength of a 
natal chart, but it is much more important in analyzing transits. 
 
                                                 
41 As per Vedic science, time is divided into a cycle of four Yugas that keep repeating. Those are: 
Krita yuga (1,728,000 years), Treta yuga (1,296,000 years), Dwapara yuga (864,000 years) and Kali 
yuga (432,000 years). In Krita yuga, religiousness and virtuosity of human beings is exemplary. It is 
the worst in Kali yuga. It gradually worsens from Krita yuga to Kali yuga. We are currently in Kali 
yuga. It started about 5,000 years back. 

=== PAGE 158 ===
 
 
 
 146 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
12.2 Benefic and Malefic Houses 
 
The benefic and malefic houses for Sun with respect to all the 8 references are given 
in Table 19. 
 
Table 19: Definition of Sun's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
2nd 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
3rd 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
4th 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
5th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
6th 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
7th 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
8th 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
9th 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
10th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
12th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
 
In Table 19, an entry of 0 denotes a malefic position or a “karana” or a bindu (dot). 
An entry of 1 denotes a benefic position or a “sthana” or a rekha (line)42. To 
understand how to read this table, let us go to the column titled “Merc” in Table 19. 
This shows benefic houses for Sun to occupy, with respect to Mercury. The 1st and 
2nd houses have 0 and the 3rd house has 1. So the first 2 houses from Mercury are 
malefic for Sun and the 3rd house is benefic for Sun. Table 20-Table 26 give the 
benefic and malefic houses of Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and 
lagna (respectively). 
 
                                                 
42 Some astrologers (especially south Indian astrologers) use a different notation. They use “bindu” to 
describe a benefic house (1) and “rekha” to describe malefic house (0). Let us follow Parasara. 

=== PAGE 159 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
147 
 
 
 
Table 20: Definition of Moon's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
2nd 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
3rd 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
4th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
5th 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
6th 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
7th 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
8th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
9th 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
10th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
12th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Table 21: Definition of Mars's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
2nd 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3rd 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
4th 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
5th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6th 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
7th 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
8th 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
9th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
10th 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
12th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
 

=== PAGE 160 ===
 
 
 
 148 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Table 22: Definition of Mercury's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
2nd 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
3rd 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
4th 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
5th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
6th 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
7th 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
8th 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
9th 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
10th 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
12th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
 
Table 23: Definition of Jupiter's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
2nd 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
3rd 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
4th 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
5th 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
6th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
7th 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
8th 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
9th 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
10th 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
12th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
 

=== PAGE 161 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
149 
 
 
 
Table 24: Definition of Venus's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
2nd 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
3rd 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
4th 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
5th 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
6th 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
7th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8th 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
9th 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
10th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
12th 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Table 25: Definition of Saturn's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
2nd 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
3rd 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
4th 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
5th 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
6th 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
7th 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
10th 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
12th 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
 

=== PAGE 162 ===
 
 
 
 150 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Table 26: Definition of Lagna's Ashtakavarga 
From
House 
Sun 
Moon 
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Lag 
1st 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
2nd 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
3rd 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
4th 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
5th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
6th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
7th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0 
8th 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
9th 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
10th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
11th 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
12th 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 
Readers without a computer program should memorize these tables. To the modern 
reader who is overly dependent on computers, memorizing these tables may seem 
like a daunting task. As our dependency on technology increases, several skills of 
our brain are left either unused or undeveloped and those skills slowly vanish. 
Computing ashtakavarga by hand is not as difficult as it may seem to be. In fact, 
even today, some people in India compute all the ashtakavarga tables by hand in a 
matter of a few minutes. 
 
Example 37: Let us say Venus is in Ge. Find the rasis in which Jupiter is benefic 
with respect to Venus. 
 
To find the rasis in which Jupiter is benefic, we should look at Jupiter’s ashtakavarga 
(see Table 23). To find the rasis in which Jupiter is benefic with respect to Venus, we 
should look at the column of Venus. Only the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th houses 
have a 1 (rekha – benefic point) against them. Venus is in Ge and finding these 
houses with respect to Venus, we get Cn, Li, Sc, Aq, Pi and Ar. So Jupiter is benefic 
with respect to Venus in these rasis. 
 

=== PAGE 163 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
151 
 
 
 
Exercise 18: Consider the rasi chart in Chart 6. Find the rasis in which Mercury is 
benefic with respect to different planets and lagna. 
 
12.3 Bhinna Ashtakavarga 
 
In this book, we will denote ashtakavarga with AV. We prepare what is known as 
“Bhinna Ashtakavarga” for each planet. It is denoted with BAV. Bhinna means 
“separate”. When preparing the BAV of a planet, we count the number of references 
from which the planet is benefic in each rasi and put that count in that rasi. For each 
planet, we prepare a different BAV. Sometimes we may simply use the word 
“ashtakavarga” (AV) to represent a BAV. 
 
The count in each rasi is between 0 to 8. It is called the number of rekhas (benefic 
points) in that rasi. If a planet is in a sign with a count of 5, 6, 7 or 8, it means that 
the planet is benefic in that rasi with respect to more references. So the planet is 
favorable. If a planet is in a sign with a count of 3, 2, 1 or 0, it means that the planet 
is malefic in that rasi with respect to more references. So the planet is unfavorable. If 
the count is 4, the planet is neutral. We can use this analysis in natal charts and also 
transit charts. 
 
Example 38: Let us go further with Exercise 18 now. After finding the rasis in 
which Mercury is benefic with respect to various references, let us count the 
references with respect to which Mercury is benefic in each rasi. From the answer to 
Exercise 18, we see that Mercury is benefic in Ar with respect to Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Mercury, Venus, Saturn and lagna. In other words, Mercury is benefic in Ar with 
respect to 7 references. So we write 7 in Ar. We see that Mercury is benefic in Ta  
with respect to Sun, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. In other words, Mercury is benefic 
in Ta with respect to 4 references. So we write 4 in Ta. We find the count of 
references for each rasi and prepare a chart. This is called Mercury’s BAV or simply 
Mercury’s AV. Readers may complete the calculations and verify with Chart 11. 
 
In Ar and Ge, we have 7 rekhas. So Mercury is benefic in those rasis with respect to 
7 references out of 8. In Aq, we have 6 rekhas. So these three rasis are particularly 
favorable for Mercury. In Vi and Cp, we have 3 rekhas and that is the lowest. So 
Mercury is particularly unfavorable in Vi and Cp. We can use this information to 

=== PAGE 164 ===
 
 
 
 152 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
interpret how favorable Mercury is in the natal chart or in a transit chart. Here 
Mercury is in Ge in the natal chart and Ge has 7 rekhas in Mercury’s AV. That 
means that Mercury is a very favorable planet. Being the lagna lord and being in a 
quadrant from lagna in own sign (i.e. Bhadra yoga) makes him even stronger. 
Because of this, Mercury is extremely favorable in this chart. No wonder Sri P.V. 
Narasimha Rao is a brilliant scholar, well versed in many languages. He is an 
excellent writer and he won a prestigious literary award for a literary work in a 
language that is not his mother tongue. 
 
Chart 11 
 
 
Exercise 19: Find the number of rekhas in all the rasis in the BAVs of Sun, Moon, 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn for the same rasi chart (see Chart 6). 
 
12.4 Samudaaya Ashtakavarga 
 
Samudaaya means “group”. Samudaaya Ashtakavarga is nothing but the sum of the 
ashtakavargas of seven planets. In each rasi, we add the number of rekhas in the 

=== PAGE 165 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
153 
 
 
 
BAVs of Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. The sum denotes 
the number of rekhas in that rasi in Samudaaya Ashtakavarga. It will be denoted with 
SAV. It is also called “Sarva Ashtakavarga” (sarva = all). 
 
Let us continue with the rasi chart in Chart 6. From the answer to Exercise 19, we 
see that the BAVs of Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn have 5, 
3, 4, 7, 4, 8 and 3 rekhas in Ar (respectively). Adding them all, we get 34. So SAV 
has 34 rekhas in Ar and we write 34 in Ar. We can find the number of rekhas in all 
the rasis in the same manner and prepare a chart with the number of rekhas written in 
each rasi. 
 
Exercise 20: Find the number of rekhas in all the rasis in SAV for the same rasi 
chart (see Chart 6). 
 
A rasi with 30 or more rekhas becomes strong. Matters signified by the house falling 
in such a rasi flourish and planets transiting in such a rasi bring good results. A rasi 
with 25-30 rekhas is average. A rasi with less than 25 rekhas becomes weak. Matters 
signified by the house falling in such a rasi suffer and planets transiting in such a rasi 
bring bad results. 
 
When choosing muhurtas43 for auspicious activities like a wedding or 
housewarming, one should look at the strengths, as per SAV of the natal chart, of the 
rasis containing lagna, Moon and Sun in the muhurta chart. Rasis containing 30 or 
more rekhas in SAV are favorable. 
 
12.5 Divisional Charts 
 
There is a misconception that ashtakavarga is applicable only to rasi charts. Parasara 
does not say it. Parasara lists the divisional charts in which different areas of life are 
seen, at the very beginning of BPHS. So all the analysis in the rest of his classic 
applies to all the divisional charts, unless Parasara explicitly mentions rasi chart. For 
example, Parasara says that D-12 shows matters related to father. So any principles 
based on ashtakavarga and sodhya pindas that let us predict matters related to father 
                                                 
43 Muhurta is an auspicious pre-set time at which one begins important activities. 

=== PAGE 166 ===
 
 
 
 154 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
must use D-12. This is a logical deduction and Parasara does not have to mention it 
explicitly each time. 
 
If we can judge the benefic positions of various planets with respect to 8 references 
in rasi chart, there is no reason why we should not do it in all the divisional charts. In 
fact, this becomes invaluable when we interpret transits in rasi chart with respect to 
the natal positions in divisional charts and transits in divisional charts with respect to 
the natal positions in rasi chart. 
 
Ashtakavarga of divisional charts is prepared in the same manner as that of rasi 
chart. The benefic houses for each planet with respect to the 8 references are the 
same. We can apply the same rules and find the BAVs of all planets. In fact, we can 
find SAV of a divisional chart too. 
 
Example 39: Let us consider the rasi chart and D-10 of India’s Prime Minister Sri 
A.B. Vajpayee (see Chart 3 for birthdata). 
 
Readers may find SAV of rasi and D-10 and verify the following: 
 
SAV of Rasi chart: 
 
         Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Rekhas   29 22 27 29 28 38 29 26 23 34 28 24  
 
SAV of D-10 chart: 
 
         Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Rekhas   23 26 33 20 28 33 26 35 28 31 24 30  
 
In rasi chart, the 11th house has the maximum number of rekhas (38) showing 
excellent gains. The 3rd house of communication has 34 rekhas. With the significator 
of communication Mercury and the artistic Moon in the 3rd house, he is an excellent 
communicator, great orator and poet. Though Sri Vajpayee’s career wasn’t a bed of 
roses – he struggled in the opposition parties for most of his career – he finally 
became India’s Prime Minister and one must agree that he had a very successful 
career. He is known as a man of great character. With lagna and the 10th house in the 
SAV of rasi chart containing only 26 and 28 rekhas – which is just average – why 
did he have such a successful career? 

=== PAGE 167 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
155 
 
 
 
 
The answer lies in the SAV of D-10. Lagna in D-10 is Sc and it contains 35 rekhas – 
maximum in D-10’s SAV. Arudha lagna also contains more than 30 rekhas. These 
factors explain his success and good name. The 3rd house in D-10 also has more than 
30 rekhas – like in the rasi chart – and that increases the chance of being an excellent 
communicator in public life. Though D-10 is powerful with lagna and arudha lagna 
containing more than 30 rekhas, one may notice that the 8th house in D-10 (Ge) has 
33 rekhas in D-10’s SAV. This explains the struggle in Vajpayee’s career. 
 
Chart 12 
 
 
Exercise 21: Consider the D-10 chart of a lady, shown in Chart 12. Compute the 
SAV of this D-10. Suppose we are told that she has an unsuccessful career as a 
waiter in a small restaurant. Based on D-10’s SAV, does it make sense? If not, guess 
her career. [HINT: Look at the number of rekhas in lagna and the 10th house.] 
 

=== PAGE 168 ===
 
 
 
 156 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
12.6 Prastaara Ashtakavarga 
 
Using the Bhinna Ashtakavarga (BAV) of a planet, we can find out the rasis in 
which it is benefic with respect to more references and the rasis in which it is malefic 
with respect to more references. To interpret transits, this is sometimes not enough. 
For example, if we know that a planet is benefic in Ta with respect to 5 references, 
that may not be enough. We may need to know exactly what those 5 references are. 
If we are looking for Jupiter’s transit that brings marriage, for example, we may want 
Jupiter to be benefic in his transit rasi with respect to certain planets (Venus or DK 
or 7th lord in navamsa, for example). In such situations, we need to know exactly 
which references a planet is benefic from. 
 
For this purpose, we prepare “Prastaara Astakavarga”. It will be denoted with PAV. 
Prastaara means “spread-out”. PAV is a spreadsheet that shows the exact references 
from which a planet is benefic in a rasi. We prepare one PAV for each planet. 
Different people may represent PAV differently. Some people may cast a chart and 
write the list of benefic references in each rasi. For some people, the answer to 
Exercise 18 may qualify as Mercury’s PAV. Some people may prefer to represent 
the same information as shown in Table 27. 
Table 27: Mercury's PAV for Exercise 18 
From 
Ar 
Ta 
Ge 
Cn 
Le 
Vi 
Li 
Sc 
Sg 
Cp 
Aq 
Pi 
Sun 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
0 
Moon 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
Mars 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Merc 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
Jup 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 
0 
1 
Ven 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
Sat 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
0 
1 
1 
Lagna 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
0 
1 
0 
1 
0 
Total 
(BAV) 
7 
4 
7 
4 
4 
3 
4 
4 
4 
3 
6 
4 
 
The basic purpose of a planet’s PAV is to show the references with respect to which 
the planet is benefic in each rasi. 
 

=== PAGE 169 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
157 
 
 
 
NOTE: From PAV, we can construct BAV easily. From Table 27, we may note that 
the sum of all the entries in each column – rasi – in a PAV gives the number of 
rekhas in that rasi in BAV. This is shown in the last row. 
 
12.7 Sodhya Pindas 
 
We discussed the computation of BAV before. By applying some reductions on the 
values in BAV, we get “Sodhita Ashtakavarga” (SoAV). Using it, we find Sodhya 
Pindas of different planets. These pindas are very important in predicting key events 
and we will talk about them again in the part “Transit Analysis”. 
 
12.7.1 
Trikona Sodhana (Trinal Reduction) 
 
Consider the BAV of a planet. Look at different sets of mutual trines separately (e.g. 
First set: Ar, Le and Sg, Second set: Ta, Vi and Cp) and apply the following rules on 
each set: 
 
(1) If atleast one rasi has zero, no reduction is necessary.44 
(2) If the three rasis have the same value, make them all zero. 
(3) Take the lowest value out of the three. Subtract it from all the values. 
 
Example 40: As an example, let us take Mercury’s BAV given in Chart 11. Let us 
takes fiery trines. Ar, Le and Sg have 7, 4 and 4 rekhas. Rules (1) and (2) don’t apply 
and we go to (3). The lowest value is 4. Subtracting it from the three values, we write 
3, 0 and 0 in Ar, Le and Sg respectively. Let us take the watery trines now. Cn, Sc 
and Pi have 4 rekhas each. Rule (2) applies and we write zero in all the three rasis. 
Readers may carry out the reduction for the remaining two sets of trines and verify 
that we get the following table after Trikona Sodhana: 
 
         Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Mercury   3  1  3  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  2  0  
                                                 
44 Some authors suggest that this applies only if there is zero in exactly one rasi. If two rasis have a 
zero, they suggest making the third one also zero. But this is inconsistent with the spirit of the other 
rules. The idea is to subtract the lowest value from others. In that sense, (1) and (2) are special cases 
cases of (3). The change suggested by these authors is inconsistent with this. Let us follow Parasara. 

=== PAGE 170 ===
 
 
 
 158 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
12.7.2 
Ekaadhipatya Sodhana (Co-owned Reduction) 
 
After we carry out Trikona Sodhana, we carry out another reduction on the pairs of 
signs that are owned by the same planet. Ar and Sc are owned by Mars; Ta and Li 
are owned by Venus; Ge and Vi are owned by Mercury; Sg and Pi are owned by 
Jupiter; and, Cp and Aq are owned by Saturn. We apply a reduction on these pairs of 
rasis separately, using the following rules: 
 
(1) If atleast one of the rasis has a zero in it, no reduction is necessary and stop here. 
(2) If both the rasis are occupied by a planet (or planets), again no reduction is 
necessary and stop here. 
(3) If one rasi is occupied by a planet (or planets) and the other is empty, then do the 
following: 
(a) If the empty rasi has a lower value, replace the value with a zero. 
(b) If the empty rasi has a higher value, replace the value with the value in the 
other rasi. 
(4) If both the rasis are empty, then do the following: 
(a) If both the rasis have the same value, replace both with zero. 
(b) If they have different values, replace the higher value with the lower value. 
 
Example 41: Let us continue with Example 40. Let us take Ar and Sc. Sc has zero in 
it and (1) applies. So there is no reduction. In fact, (1) applies to all pairs and so all 
the values remain unchanged after Ekaadhipatya reduction. 
 
Example 42: Let us consider some other hypothetical examples to understand all the 
rules correctly. 
(a) Let us say Ta and Li have 4 and 2 rekhas after Trikona reduction. Let us say Ta is 
occupied by Mars and Li by Jupiter and Saturn. In this case, rule (2) applies and 
we do not alter the values. 
(b) Let us say Ta and Li have 4 and 2 rekhas after Trikona reduction. Let us say Ta is 
occupied by Mars and Li is empty. In this case, rule (3a) applies and we write 
zero in Li, as Li is empty and it has a lower value than Ta. 

=== PAGE 171 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
159 
 
 
 
(c) Let us say Ta and Li have 4 and 2 rekhas after Trikona reduction. Let us say Ta is 
empty and Li is occupied by Jupiter and Saturn. In this case, rule (3b) applies and 
we write 2 in Ta, as Ta is empty and it has a higher value than Li. 
(d) Let us say Ta and Li have 4 and 2 rekhas after Trikona reduction. Let us say Ta 
and Li are empty. In this case, rule (4b) applies and we replace the higher value 4 
with the lower value 2. So we write 2 in Ta. 
(e) Let us say Ta and Li have 2 and 2 rekhas after Trikona reduction. Let us say Ta 
and Li are empty. In this case, rule (4a) applies and we write zero in Ta and Li. 
 
12.7.3 
Sodhya Pindas 
 
After carrying out Trikona sodhana and then Ekaadhipatya sodhana on the BAV of a 
planet, we get the “Sodhita Ashtakavarga” of that planet. We denote Sodhita 
Ashtakavarga with SoAV.45 From it, we find “Sodhya Pinda” of each planet. This 
will be used in transit analysis. 
 
For each rasi, we multiply the number in that rasi in SoAV with the multiplier of that 
rasi (shown in Table 28). We find such a product for all the 12 rasis. We find the 
sum of the products of all the 12 rasis and the sum is called rasi pinda. 
 
For each planet, we multiply the number in the rasi containing that planet with the 
multiplier of that planet (shown in Table 29). We find such a product for all the 7 
planets. We find the sum of the products of all the 7 planets and the sum is called 
graha pinda. 
 
Table 28: Multipliers in Rasimana 
Rasi 
Ar 
Ta 
Ge 
Cn 
Le 
Vi 
Li 
Sc 
Sg 
Cp 
Aq 
Pi 
Multiplier 
7 
10 
8 
4 
10 
6 
7 
8 
9 
5 
11 
12 
 
                                                 
45 This chart has several purposes which will not be covered in this book. An example is Vaastu or 
Sthaapatya Veda or the Vedic Science of Architecture. The direction signified by the rasis containing 
most rekhas in the SoAV of a planet should contain the room in which the activity related to the 
planet takes place. For example, we should look at the SoAV of Venus to decide where bedroom 
should be. We should look Jupiter’s SoAV to decide where money and jewels should be kept. We 
should look at Moon’s SoAV to decide the living room (hall). Mercury is important for the study 
room. Sun is important for the pooja room. 

=== PAGE 172 ===
 
 
 
 160 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Table 29: Multipliers in Grahamana 
Planet 
Sun 
Moon
Mars 
Merc 
Jup 
Ven 
Sat 
Multiplier 
5 
5 
8 
5 
10 
7 
5 
 
By adding rasi pinda and graha pinda, we get “Sodhya Pinda” of the planet whose 
SoAV we are working with. 
 
Example 43: Let us continue with Mercury’s SoAV found in Example 40 and 
Example 41. 
 
       Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
SoAV:   3  1  3  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  2  0  
 
Rasi Pinda: Product for Ar is 3 x 7 = 21. Product for Ta is 1 x 10 = 10. Product for 
Ge is 3 x 8 = 24. Product for Aq is 2 x 11 = 22. Product for other rasis is zero, 
because they contain zero and we get zero by multiplying zero with any number. The 
sum of all the products is 21 + 10 + 24 + 22 = 77. So rasi pinda is 77. 
 
Graha Pinda: Sun, Mars and Mercury are in Ge, which has 3 rekhas in SoAV. 
Product of Sun is 3 x 5 = 15. Product of Mars is 3 x 8 = 24. Product of Mercury is 3 x 
5 = 15. Venus is in Ar, which has 3. Product of Venus is 3 x 7 = 21. Other planets are 
in rasis with zero in them. So the product is zero for them. The sum of all the 
products is 15 + 24 + 15 + 21 = 75. So graha pinda is 75. 
 
We get sodhya pinda of Mercury by adding rasi pinda and graha pinda. We get 77 + 
75 = 152. So Mercury’s sodhya pinda in this chart is 152. 
 
Exercise 22: Find BAV, SoAV and sodhya pinda of all planets in Chart 7. 
 
12.8 Controversies 
 
With some authors using the term bindu (dot) to denote a benefic house and the term 
rekha (line) to denote a malefic house – which is the opposite of what we learnt in 
this chapter – readers may be confused when reading other books. So they should 
keep in mind that there are different conventions in vogue. We are following 
Parasara’s conventions in this book. 

=== PAGE 173 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
161 
 
 
 
 
The above is merely a problem of different naming conventions. It is not a serious 
issue at all. It is just a matter of getting used to different nomenclature. But there is 
another issue, which is far more serious. There are a few inconsistencies between the 
lists of benefic houses of Moon and Venus as given by Maharshi Parasara and the 
great astrologer Varahamihira, who is relatively modern, as he belongs to 600 AD. 
These inconsistencies may have arisen due to corruption of texts in time46. 
 
To define a planet’s ashtakavarga, Parasara first gives the count of references from 
which the planet is malefic in the 1st house and then he lists the references. He does 
the same thing for all houses. So we can crosscheck. As if this isn’t enough, the Sage 
then lists the references from which the planet is benefic. He does it in all the houses 
again. Just as “checksum” values are transmitted in today’s digital communication 
schemes to provide resilience to transmission errors, the Sage, who normally uses 
words sparingly, takes plenty of care to ensure that his teachings on ashtakavarga 
remain difficult to corrupt. To corrupt one house value in Parasara’s account of 
ashtakavarga, one has to consciously re-write the verses in three different places in a 
consistent fashion. With the direct approach adopted by other authors, one can 
change the table just by changing one word. For example, changing “sukha” 
(comfort – 4th) to “suta” (son – 5th) changes one value without affecting the meter 
used in the verses. With Parasara’s indirect approach, consistent changes in multiple 
places are required for a single value change. So Parasara’s indirect approach is 
superior in corruption resistance. We will follow Parasara in this book. 
 
Just for the information of the reader, the places of conflict will be mentioned below: 
 
(1) Moon’s ashtakavarga: As per Parasara, Moon is benefic in the 9th from Moon and 
malefic in the 9th from Mars. As per Varahamihira, Moon is malefic in the 9th 
from Moon and benefic in the 9th from Mars. 
(2) Moon’s ashtakavarga: As per Parasara, Moon is benefic in the 2nd from Jupiter 
and malefic in the 12th from Jupiter. As per Varahamihira, Moon is malefic in the 
2nd from Jupiter and benefic in the 12th from Jupiter. 
                                                 
46 In India, books seldom existed on paper and classics were transmitted from one generation to the 
other, mostly by word of mouth. People got the classics by heart and recited them to their children and 
students. Books were written in poetry, using nice meters, to facilitate memorization. 

=== PAGE 174 ===
 
 
 
 162 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(3) Venus’s ashtakavarga: As per Parasara, Venus is benefic in the 4th from Mars and 
malefic in the 5th from Mars. As per Varahamihira, Venus is malefic in the 4th 
from Mars and benefic in the 5th from Mars. 
 
The definitions and calculations given in this chapter strictly follow Parasara for the 
reasons already mentioned. However, readers are welcome to experiment and draw 
their own conclusions. Until authentic and conclusive researches are conducted into 
the use of sodhya pindas in the timing of events, we cannot conclusively resolve the 
above controversy. 
 
Apart from this, there is another needless controversy related to ashtakavarga. Some 
people prepare “bhava chakra” or “chalit chakra” using Sripathi’s (or Porphyry’s) 
house devision method and use that chart to cast ashtakavarga. If Saturn is at 3º in Vi 
and lagna is at 27º in Le, they are very close and these people argue that Saturn is in 
the 1st house from lagna and not in the 2nd house. These people make a bhava chakra 
accordingly and use it in ashtakavarga. However, if lagna is at 15º in Le, Saturn is at 
3º in Vi and Jupiter is at 27º in Le, they may take Saturn to be in the 2nd house from 
Jupiter. They compute a bhava chakra with multi-sign houses only with respect to 
lagna and not with respect to all the references used in ashtakavarga. So their 
approach is neither here nor there. 
 
The stand of this book is very clear – each bhava (house) with respect to one 
reference can only be in one rasi. Even if Saturn is at 1º in Vi and lagna is at 29º in 
Le, we still say that the 1st house is in Le, the 2nd house is in Li and Saturn is in the 
2nd house (though he is only 2º away from lagna). We do not recognize the house 
division methods of Porphyry and others in this book. Each rasi is a house and the 1st 
house is the rasi containing the reference. Readers will do well to follow Maharshi 
Parasara and ignore the creations and borrowings of later day Indian astrologers. 
 
12.9 Answers to Exercises 
 
Exercise 18: 
 
See Table 22 for Mercury’s ashtakavarga. Looking at the columns of different 
planets, find the houses from the planets in which Mercury is benefic. Count those 
houses from the respective planets and find the rasis. 
 

=== PAGE 175 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
163 
 
 
 
Sun: 
Ar, Ta, Li, Sc, Aq 
Moon: 
Ar, Ge, Le, Li, Sg, Cp 
Mars: 
Ar, Ge, Cn, Vi, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi 
Mercury: 
Ar, Ta, Ge, Le, Li, Sc, Aq, Pi 
Jupiter: 
Ge, Cn, Cp, Pi 
Venus: 
Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Sc, Sg, Aq 
Saturn: 
Ar, Ta, Ge, Le, Vi, Sc, Aq, Pi 
Lagna: 
Ar, Ge, Cn, Vi, Li, Sg, Aq 
 
Exercise 19: 
 
         Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Sun       5  3  5  3  4  4  2  3  5  4  5  5  
Moon      3  2  5  3  6  3  4  5  5  5  3  5* 
Mars      4  3  4  3  4  3  2  5  1  3  3  4  
Mercury   7  4  7  4  4  3  4  4  4  3  6  4  
Jupiter   4  3  5  6  3  7  4  3  5  6  5  5  
Venus     8  7  4  3  3  2  4  6  4  4  4  3  
Saturn    3  3  4  3  2  3  2  3  4  5  3  4  
 
Using the above values, one can prepare a chart for each planet’s BAV, as shown in 
Chart 11. 
 
Exercise 20: 
 
       Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Sum    34 25 34 25 26 25 22 29 28 30 29 30  
 
Using the above values, one can prepare a chart for SAV, as shown in Chart 11. 
 
Exercise 21: 
 
SAV of D-10 is as given below: 
 
        Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Rekhas  24 25 31 28 27 39 33 29 26 22 28 25  
 
Lagna is in Vi in Chart 12. Vi it has 39 rekhas. That’s a lot more than 30! The 10th 
house (Ge) also has more than 30 rekhas. So this D-10 is very powerful and it 

=== PAGE 176 ===
 
 
 
 164 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
possibly cannot belong to an unsuccessful waiter at a small restaurant. This has to be 
someone pretty successful. 
 
Now let us guess her career. 
 
Apart from the 1st and 10th houses, the 2nd house is strong in D-10’s SAV, with 33 
rekhas. This shows the importance of speech and voice in her career. Ghati lagna is 
in Taurus and its lord Venus occupies it. This makes ghati lagna and 9th house very 
powerful. This shows a fortunate (9th) and famous (GL) entertainer (Venus). Saturn’s 
11th house argala on GL suggests popular mass support as a catalyst in her success. 
Rahu’s unobstructed 2nd house argala on lagna shows unconventional behavior in 
public life.47 
 
Final Answer: The chart belongs to Madonna, a pop diva of USA. 
 
Exercise 22: 
 
Readers should carefully go through the examples given in this chapter and 
understand the calculations. This exercise covers most of the calculations defined in 
this chapter and it will be a good idea to attempt this exercise and verify the 
calculations. 
 
Bhinna Ashatakavarga (BAV): 
 
      Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
Sun    4  2  3  4  6  5  5  3  2  6  6  2  
Moon   6  3  5  3  5  5  6  3  3  4  4  2  
Mars   3  2  3  4  2  5  4  3  3  4  3  3  
Merc   4  6  4  3  4  7  4  5  6  3  5  3  
Jup    4  4  3  5  6  5  6  4  6  4  3  6  
Ven    3  5  5  4  6  2  3  6  5  2  7  4  
Sat    3  2  2  3  5  6  3  4  1  3  6  1  
Total 27 24 25 26 34 35 31 28 26 26 34 21  SAV 
 
Sodhita Ashatakavarga (SoAV): 
 
      Ar Ta Ge Cn Le Vi Li Sc Sg Cp Aq Pi  
                                                 
47 Argalas on lagna show decisive influences on one’s nature and argalas on GL show decisive 
influences on one’s fame. 

=== PAGE 177 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
165 
 
 
 
Sun    2  0  0  2  4  3  2  1  0  4  3  0  
Moon   3  0  1  1  2  1  2  1  0  1  0  0  
Mars   1  0  0  1  0  3  1  0  1  2  0  0  
Merc   0  3  0  0  0  4  0  2  2  0  1  0  
Jup    0  0  0  1  2  1  3  0  2  0  0  0  
Ven    0  3  2  0  3  0  0  2  2  0  4  0  
Sat    2  0  0  2  4  4  1  3  0  1  4  0  
 
    RasiPinda GrahaPinda SodhyaPinda 
Sun    152        81         233 
Moon    85        55         140 
Mars    52        43          95 
Merc    95        33         128 
Jup     68        56         124 
Ven    154        54         208 
Sat    162        63         225 
 
 

=== PAGE 178 ===
 
 
 
 166 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
13.  Interpreting Charts 
 
13.1 Introduction 
 
In the previous chapters, we have learnt various parameters and tools available in 
Vedic astrology. When it comes to putting them all together and interpreting charts, 
there is no substitute for experience. One should also refer to classics and “How to 
Judge a Horoscope” (Vols I & II) by Dr. B.V. Raman, to become familiar with the 
standard results attributed to different planets being in different houses and the lords 
of different houses being in various houses. In this chapter, we will cover some 
topics not covered yet and go through a couple of examples of interpreting charts. 
We will see many more examples in the rest of this book. 
 
13.2 Functional Nature 
 
We learnt that Jupiter, Venus, waxing Moon and well-associated Mercury are natural 
benefics. We learnt that Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu, waning Moon and ill-
associated Mercury are natural malefics. In addition, we have the concept of 
functional benefics and functional malefics. 
 
The lords of trines from lagna are functional benefics. The lords of 3rd, 6th and 11th 
are functional malefics. The lord of a quadrant is a functional malefic if he is a 
natural benefic and functionally neutral if he is a natural malefic. The lords of 2nd, 8th 
and 12th are functionally neutral. Of these, the 8th house is more malefic than the 
other two. 
 
Planet owning a quadrant and a trine becomes a yogakaraka (excellent planet). 
 
In the case of planets owning two rasis, we need to judiciously combine the two 
indications. The list of yogakarakas, functional benefics, functional neutrals and 
functional malefics for each lagna is given in Table 30. Moon is not listed for 
movable rasis, because his functional nature depends on whether he is waxing or 
waning. Waxing Moon is a natural benefic and he becomes a functional malefic with 

=== PAGE 179 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
167 
 
 
 
quadrant ownership. Waning Moon, on the other hand, is a natural malefic and 
quadrant ownership makes him functionally neutral. 
 
Table 30: Functional nature of planets 
Lagna 
Yoga 
karaka 
Functional 
Benefics 
Functional 
neutrals 
Functional malefics 
Ar 
— 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
— 
Mercury, Venus, 
Saturn 
Ta 
Saturn 
Sun, Mercury, 
Saturn 
Mars 
Moon, Jupiter, 
Venus 
Ge 
— 
Venus 
Moon, Mercury, 
Saturn 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
Cn 
Mars 
Moon, Mars, 
Jupiter 
Sun, Saturn 
Mercury, Venus 
Le 
Mars 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
Moon 
Mercury, Venus, 
Saturn 
Vi 
— 
Mercury, Venus 
Sun, Saturn 
Moon, Mars, Jupiter 
Li 
Saturn 
Mercury, Venus, 
Saturn 
— 
Sun, Mars, Jupiter 
Sc 
— 
Moon, Jupiter 
Sun, Mars 
Mercury, Venus, 
Saturn 
Sg 
— 
Sun, Mars 
Moon, Mercury, 
Jupiter 
Venus, Saturn 
Cp 
Venus 
Venus, Mercury, 
Saturn 
Sun 
Mars, Jupiter 
Aq 
Venus 
Venus, Saturn 
Sun, Mercury 
Moon, Mars, Jupiter 
Pi 
— 
Moon, Mars 
Jupiter 
Sun, Mercury, 
Venus, Saturn 
 
A functional benefic is a favorable planet in a chart. Placement of a functional 
benefic in quadrants (sustenance) and trines (prosperity) brings good results. 
Placement of a functional malefic in these houses is not good, unless it is very 
strong. A functional malefic placed in the 3rd house and dusthanas (6th, 8th and 12th 
houses) brings good results, by spoiling the significations of the bad houses. 
 
If a planet aspects or conjoins or owns HL and lagna, it becomes a yogada (giver of 
yoga) in money matters. If a planet aspects or conjoins or owns GL and lagna, it 

=== PAGE 180 ===
 
 
 
 168 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
becomes a yogada in the matters of power and authority. Irrespective of their 
functional nature, planets that become yogada bring goodluck. Similarly, planets 
involved in important yogas also bring good luck. 
 
We should consider the inherent nature and the functional nature of planets. Whether 
a planet is a natural benefic or a natural malefic is analogous to whether a person is 
inherently good or bad. Whether a planet is a functional benefic or a functional 
malefic is analogous to whether a person does good or bad to one. Just as a nice 
person may harm one and a bad person may do good, natural benefics can become 
functional malefics and natural malefics can become functional benefics. 
 
13.3 Baadhakas 
 
For a house falling in a movable/fixed/dual rasi, the 11th/9th/7th house (respectively) 
from there becomes baadhaka sthaana (troubling spot). Its lord is called a 
“baadhaka” (troublemaker) for the original house. The list of baadhaka sthaanas and 
baadhakas corresponding to each rasi is given in Table 31. 
 
For example, suppose lagna in someone’s D-10 is in Ge. Then Jupiter is baadhaka 
for lagna. The periods of Jupiter and planets in Sg can create some obstructions and 
troubles in career. Let us take another house. Aq is the 9th house and the 9th house in 
D-10 shows the guidance one gets in one’s career. It can show manager and elders 
giving guidance. Baadhaka sthana for Aq is Li. So the periods of Venus and 
occupants of Li can create some troubles related to the guidance one gets. There may 
be some troubles related to manager. Thus we can consider baadhaka from every 
house and arudha pada in every divisional chart. 
 
Table 31: Baadhakas 
Rasi 
Baadhaka sthaana 
Baadhaka 
Ar 
Aq 
Saturn & Rahu 
Ta 
Cp 
Saturn 
Ge 
Sg 
Jupiter 
Cn 
Ta 
Venus 
Le 
Ar 
Mars 
Vi 
Pi 
Jupiter 
Li 
Le 
Sun 

=== PAGE 181 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
169 
 
 
 
Sc 
Cn 
Moon 
Sg 
Ge 
Mercury 
Cp 
Sc 
Mars & Ketu 
Aq 
Li 
Venus 
Pi 
Vi 
Mercury 
 
13.4 Analyzing Charts 
 
13.4.1 
Basic Guidelines 
 
When we analyze the charts, we should remember all the concepts we learnt in the 
previous chapters. The following factors must be remembered: 
 
(1) Divisional Chart: Use the correct divisional chart for the matter of interest. 
Suppose we are looking at happiness from a vehicle. D-16 is the best chart. 
Suppose we are trying to analyze a criminal’s psychology. D-30 is the best chart. 
Suppose we are analyzing marriage. D-9 is the best chart. Suppose we are 
analyzing marriage in a culture where marriage is not a dharma (duty) and a 
union of souls, but it is merely living together of two people, then rasi chart may 
be better than D-9. Suppose we want to study one’s religious activities. Then D-
20 is the chart. If we want to study one’s learning, D-24 is the chart. Suppose we 
want to study one’s career and achievements in society, D-10 chart is the correct 
chart. In this manner, we should choose the correct divisional chart. 
(2) House: We should choose the correct house after choosing the correct divisional 
chart. Let us say that we are analyzing someone’s learning related activities and 
decided to look at D-24. If we want to see his education, we see the 4th house. If 
we want to see his intelligence, scholarship, academic reputation, academic 
distinctions/awards, students etc, we should look at the 5th house. If we want to 
see how one, in one’s pursuit of knowledge, interacts with others and what kind 
of people one interacts with, then we should see the 7th house. Like that, we 
choose the correct house for the matter of interest. 
(3) Reference: We should choose the correct reference for counting houses. In the 
above example of D-24, academic reputation is related more to the perceived self 
(AL) than the true self (lagna). So it is seen from the 5th from arudha lagna (AL). 
Intelligence and scholarship, on the other hand, are related to the true self and 

=== PAGE 182 ===
 
 
 
 170 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
they are seen from the 5th from lagna. When the relevant karakas are stronger, we 
can use them as references instead of lagna. So scholarship can be seen from the 
5th from Mercury. Students can be seen from the 5th lord. Intelligence can be seen 
from the 5th from Jupiter. Academic reputation can be seen in D-24 from the 5th 
from Sun. 
(4) House vs Arudha: Sometimes, an arudha pada is more appropriate to see a 
matter than a house. For example, we can see darapada (A7) in D-24 to figure out 
what kind of people one typically interacts with in one’s learning related 
activities. We can see one’s academic distinctions/awards in A5, because they are 
maya (illusion) related to intelligence and scholarship. The world forms an 
impression about one’s intelligence and scholarship based on one’s scores, ranks, 
grades, distinctions and awards. 
(5) Influences: After we choose a house/arudha in a divisional chart to represent the 
matter of interest, the next step is to analyze the influences on it. Planets 
influence it with rasi drishti and graha drishti. We should also check for argala. 
We should judge the meaning of each influence. We can also judge the 
influences on a house by finding houses with respect to that house. Planets in the 
quadrants from a house sustain it. Planets in trines from a house let it prosper. 
Planets in upachayas let it grow. Planets in dusthanas bring obstacles. Suppose 
we are analyzing A3 in an author’s D-10. While the 3rd house shows one’s 
writing skills, it is A3 that shows one’s books. If a planet is in a quadrant from 
A3, its periods may result in book writing. If a planet is in the 8th house from A3, 
its periods may bring obstacles in book writing. If a planet is a baadhaka from 
A3, it can create troubles in book-writing. 
(6) Standard Results: There are many standard results given in literature for various 
planets and house lords in various houses. These results should be mastered. 
 
Attention should be paid to the strength and avasthas of various planets and 
ashtakavarga strength of various houses. The presence of yogas should also be noted. 
 
13.4.2 
Family Members 
 
We can analyze the fortunes of family members from one’s chart. For parents, 
grandparents, uncles and aunts, we should see D-12. For children, children-in-law 
and grandchildren, we should see D-7. For brothers, sisters, brothers-in-law and 

=== PAGE 183 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
171 
 
 
 
sister-in-law, we should see D-3. For spouse and his/her family members, we should 
see D-9. 
 
In each of these charts, we should look at the house that shows the person of interest 
and consider the rasi containing the lord of that house as lagna. We can consider the 
corresponding arudha pada also. For example, the 9th lord or the arudha pada of 9th 
house in D-12 shows father. The 4th lord or the arudha pada of 4th house in D-12 
shows mother. 
 
In D-3, we see siblings. The 3rd house shows younger sibling and the 11th house 
shows elder sibling. Being the 3rd from the 3rd house, the 5th house shows younger 
brother’s younger brother, i.e. second younger brother. Being the 11th from the 11th 
house, the 9th house shows elder brother’s elder brother, i.e. second elder brother. We 
take the 3rd lord, 5th lord, 7th lord etc as lagnas of first (immediate) younger sibling, 
second younger sibling, third younger sibling etc. We take the 11th lord, 9th lord, 7th 
lord etc as lagnas of first (immediate) elder sibling, second elder sibling, third elder 
sibling etc. 
 
Similarly, the 5th house house shows children in D-7. The 7th house is the 3rd from 5th 
and shows one’s child’s younger sibling. So the 5th lord shows the first child, the 7th 
lord shows the second child, the 9th house shows the third child and so on. 
 
When we count houses corresponding to siblings and children in D-3 and D-7, we 
count in the forward or backward direction based on whether lagna is odd or even 
(respectively). If lagna in D-7 is in Ge, Venus (lord of Li) shows first child, Jupiter 
(lord of Sg) shows the second child and so on. On the other hand, if lagna in D-7 is 
in Cn, Jupiter (lord of Pi) shows the first child, Saturn (lord of Cp) shows the second 
child and so on. 
 
NOTE: After covering all the odd or even signs, we move from odd to even signs or 
even to odd signs, instead of coming back to where we started. 
 
13.5 Examples 
 
After going through a couple of examples, readers may be able to appreciate the 
process of interpreting charts. 
 

=== PAGE 184 ===
 
 
 
 172 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 44: Let us consider the rasi chart given in Chart 13 and start making some 
observations. 
 
Lagna in Leo can show someone royal and authoritative. Lagna lord Sun is in the 
10th house with 5th lord Jupiter. This forms a raaja yoga. With Jupiter in Uttamaamsa, 
this yoga is powerful. Moreover, this yoga takes place in the 7th from AL. That 
makes it more powerful. 
 
However, we note that debilitated Moon occupies AL in a Martian sign and Saturn 
aspects him. Debilitated Moon in AL shows that the mind is turned away from the 
material world. Saturn is the significator of hard-work, service and austerity and he 
also signifies renunciation. His aspect on Moon can give renunciation. Moreover, 
Saturn is with Ketu here. Overall, there are parivraaja yogas48 here. So this native is 
likely to have renounced the world. 
 
                                                 
48 Parivraaja yogas are combinations that give renunciation of the material world. 

=== PAGE 185 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
173 
 
 
 
Chart 13 
 
 
Saturn is the planet of hard-work. Ketu is the planet of selflessness, evolution and 
rising above the shackles of the material world. Venus is the planet of passion. If two 

=== PAGE 186 ===
 
 
 
 174 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
of these planets are together and the third planet aspects them, it gives Tapaswi49 
yoga. If AK (chara atma karaka – soul) also aspects or conjoins the planets involved 
in Tapaswi yoga, this tapas will be more fruitful and will be a continuation of the 
efforts of the past lives (AK is one’s link with the past lives). 
 
Here Saturn and Ketu are together in Virgo and exalted Venus aspects them from 
Pisces. This gives Tapaswi yoga. Tapaswi yoga is particularly powerful when 
formed with a planet in the 8th house (hard-work, research, discovery and occult 
knowledge). Here Venus is in the 8th house. AK is also involved in Tapaswi yoga. 
 
So this native is likely to be a renunciate who did tapas in something and dedicated 
his life to it. His soul is likely to have found its purpose in his tapas. However, at the 
same time, there is a powerful rajayoga involving lagna lord and GL lord in the 7th 
from AL. That yoga cannot go waste. So this native must’ve enjoyed some power 
and influence in the society. 
 
Let us consider his D-20 now (see Chart 13). D-20 shows religious and spiritual 
activities. Lagna is in Pisces and lord Jupiter is in the 9th house. This shows 
religiousness and also being guided by a brilliant guru/parampara. GL in D-20 is in 
Sc and Jupiter occupies it. It shows a powerful position in religion. 
 
If the 5th and 9th lords conjoin and aspect lagna, we learnt that it forms a rajayoga. 
Here 5th lord Moon and 9th lord Mars join in Vi and aspect lagna in Pi. This shows a 
powerful rajayoga giving a powerful and prosperous position related to religious 
matters. Venus, the planet of passion, is in the 8th house in own rasi. That shows 
sincere efforts and hard-work in religious matters. The 2nd house has Sun and 
Mercury in it. The 2nd house shows speech among other things. Mercury is the planet 
of speech and he has 6 rekhas in his D-20 BAV. Sun is a charismatic planet and he 
has 5 rekhas in D-20 BAV. They together give Budha-Aaditya yoga in the house of 
speech. The native is likely to be an excellent orator of religious matters. 
 
This chart belongs to Swami Chandrasekhara Saraswathi, who was the chief pontiff 
of Kanchi Kama Koti Peetham. He was a great scholar and a keen student of many 
subjects. He was a true tapaswi and made a Herculean contribution in restoring the 
place of Vedic knowledge in Indian society. He was a brilliant orator. He  
                                                 
49 Tapaswi is a person who performs tapas. He forgets everything and pursues something single-
mindedly. Tapaswis usually dedicate themselves to research and uncover the secrets of the world. A 
tapaswi can be into yoga, mantra, tantra, astrology or even physics or chemistry. 

=== PAGE 187 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
175 
 
 
 
commanded the respect of presidents, prime ministers, chief ministers and millions 
of Indians. 
 
Chart 14 
 
 

=== PAGE 188 ===
 
 
 
 176 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 45: Let us consider the D-3 chart of Late Rajiv Gandhi (see Chart 14). 
 
Based on his D-3, let us try to say something about his younger Sanjay Gandhi. 
Lagna in D-3 is in Sg, an odd sign. So we count houses normally. The 3rd house is 
Aq. Saturn is its lord and we should take Li as lagna in Rajiv Gandhi’s D-3 to 
analyze Sanjay Gandhi’s fortune. 
 
Lagna has exalted Saturn in it. This shows Sasa yoga. This shows someone with 
many loyal followers. The 10th house has 5th lord Rahu. If the 5th lord is in 10th, it can 
show power. Because it is Rahu, it can show forceful nature in career. However, the 
10th lord Moon is in a fiery sign in the 3rd house with Jupiter and Venus, two rank 
benefics. The 3rd house shows one’s parakrama (boldness and initiative). This shows 
a very positive and pro-active attitude. It shows a doer. 
 
It may be interesting to note the similarities between Rajiv Gandhi’s D-3 and Sanjay 
Gandhi’s rasi chart (shown in Chart 14). In both, Saturn is on the lagna axis. In the 
former, Saturn is in lagna and Saturn owns lagna in the latter. In the former, Moon 
owns 10th and joins Jupiter and Venus. In the latter, Jupiter and Venus are in 10th, 
aspected by Moon. In the former, 5th lord Rahu is in 10th. In the latter, Rahu is in 5th 
and aspects 10th. In the former, Sun is in own sign in 11th, aspected by Mercury, 
Saturn and Ketu. In the latter, Sun, Mercury and Ketu are in 11th and Saturn aspects 
them. In both, Mars is in the 12th house. 
 
Usually, we have such links between the charts of related people. 
 
Example 46: Let us consider the D-24 charts (see Chart 15) and D-27 charts (see 
Chart 16) of twins Satyam Gaur and Shivam Gaur, who were born just 2 minutes 
apart. They have the same rasi chart, but Satyam Gaur was a brilliant student and 
Shivam Gaur was a mediocre student. Satyam studied commerce and accountancy  
and scored well. Shivam was a mediocre student except in mathematics. Satyam is 
jovial, amicable and optimistic. Shivam is a skeptic. He does not believe in astrology 
and always seeks rational explanations. Let us try to explain these facts. 
 
D-24 is the chart that shows education. In Satyam’s case, lagna is in Li and lagna 
lord Venus is well-placed in a trine in a friendly house. Moreover, the sign occupied 
by lagna lord is Ge, an intellectual sign. Mercury is in the 5th house and that gives 
good memory and intelligence. It also gives skills in commerce and accounting. 
 

=== PAGE 189 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
177 
 
 
 
Chart 15 
 
 

=== PAGE 190 ===
 
 
 
 178 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Chart 16 
 
 

=== PAGE 191 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
179 
 
 
 
Moreover, AL has Mercury and it shows a person who is perceived as an intellectual 
person as far as learning goes. Mars in 6th, Venus in 5th and nodes in 11th are well-
placed from AL. 
 
In Shivam’s D-24, lagna moved to Sc and lagna lord is debilitated. The strength of 
lagna and lagna lord is very important in any chart. Moreover, 5th lord Jupiter is also 
debilitated. Still, exalted Ketu’s aspect on Pi, the 5th house, gave him some skills in 
mathematics. But the debilitation of lagna lord and 5th lord makes him a mediocre 
student. From AL also, Mars in 7th, Venus in 6th, nodes in 12th are badly placed. 
Malefics in 3rd, 6th and 11th from AL and benefics in trines from it will give good 
results. 
 
To see one’s inherent nature, strengths and weaknesses, we  should look at D-27. In 
Satyam’s D-27, lagna is in Ge and lagna lord Mercury aspects it. This gives Bhadra 
yoga like results. The 5th house of emotions and judgment is Libra and its lord Venus 
occupies it. This strength of lagna and 5th house made him a very jovial, amicable, 
cheerful and balanced person. 
 
On the other hand, lagna in Shivam’s D-27 is in Cn. Lagna lord Moon is debilitated 
in the 5th house of emotions. This gives an unhappy spirit. The 5th house shows 
emotions and judgment and the 5th lord Mars is in Vi. The 8th lord (skepticism) 
Saturn has an aspect with him from Pi. This makes him skeptical and depressed. 
Mars in taamasik and analytical sign Vi, with an aspect with 8th lord, makes him seek 
rational explanations for everything. 
 
13.6 Conclusion 
 
In this chapter, we tried to recapitulate what we learnt in the previous chapters. A 
couple of examples were given to illustrate the process of interpreting charts. In the 
rest of the book, we will see many more examples. 
 

=== PAGE 192 ===
 
 
 
 180 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
14.  Topics Related to Longevity 
 
14.1 Introduction 
 
Many human beings are curious about how long they will live. An ethical astrologer 
will not scare a client by predicting death, but he may caution a client gently before 
critical periods and suggest some remedial measures to ward off an impending 
danger. An estimation of longevity is also helpful in matchmaking. After all, if one 
person will live for 81 years and the other only for 36 years, it is not advisable to 
approve a match between those two people. In matchmaking, it is desirable that the 
bridegroom and the bride have comparable longevity. 
 
In this chapter, we will study some basic tools that are used in longevity 
determination techniques. There are formulas for determining longevity, based on 
ashtakavarga. But they do not always work and they will not be covered in this book. 
We will cover the estimation of longevity based on natal chart and dasas. Though 
there are many dasas that help us in timing death, we will cover only Shoola dasa in 
this book. 
 
14.2 Marakas (Killers) 
 
Each chart has some rasis and planets that are called marakas (killers). Since death is 
an event relating to the physical existence, rasi chart is of utmost importance in 
seeing death. Rudramsa (D-11) shows the forces of death and destruction and it can 
also give insight into death. D-30 shows one’s evils and punishment for the evils. 
Death can be a punishment for one’s evils and so we should look at D-30 also. 
However, the most important chart is the rasi chart. 
 
The 3rd and 8th houses are the houses of life. The 3rd house shows the vitality of 
one’s existence and the 8th house shows the longevity. The 12th house from any 
house shows losses related to the matters signified by that house. So the 12th house 
from these two houses shows death. So the 2nd and 7th houses are the houses of 
death. For good longevity, the 3rd and 8th houses and their lords should be strong and 
the 2nd and 7th houses and their lords should be weak. 

=== PAGE 193 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
181 
 
 
 
 
The rasis containing the 2nd and 7th houses are called maraka sthanas (killer 
stations). When we use rasi-ruled dasas that can show death, dasas of these rasis can 
bring death. Lords of the 2nd and 7th houses are called maraka grahas (killer 
planets). When we use planet-ruled dasas that can show death, dasas of these planets 
can bring death. 
 
There are other maraka grahas too. If a malefic planet powerfully conjoins or 
aspects, using graha drishti, the 2nd and 7th houses or their lords, then it qualifies as a 
maraka graha. Let us look at an example. Suppose lagna is in Le, Saturn is in Sg and 
Mars is in Ge. Then Saturn is a maraka on account of owning the 7th house (Aq). 
Mars is a malefic and he is in Ge. He aspects the 2nd house (Vi, with the 4th house 
aspect) and the 7th lord (Saturn in Sg – with the 7th house aspect). Because of these 
two factors, Mars is a maraka. Let us take another example. Suppose lagna is in Pi, 
Mars is in Ge, Mercury is in Cp and Saturn is in Ar. On account of owning the 2nd 
and 7th houses, Mars and Mercury are marakas. Look at Saturn. He is in the 2nd 
house and aspects the 2nd lord Mars (with the 3rd house aspect) and the 7th lord 
Mercury (with the 10th house aspect). So Saturn is also a maraka and he may in fact 
be a stronger maraka than Mars and Mercury. 
 
When we time one’s death using a dasa, we should look for the involvement of 
maraka sthanas and maraka grahas. We can also use marakas when timing death 
using the transits of planets.  
 
14.3 Rudra, Trishoola and Maheswara 
 
In Indian mythology, there are eleven Rudras. They are all different forms of Lord 
Shiva. They bring suffering and death to a native. Trishoola or trident is the weapon 
of Lord Shiva. Maheswara is the Supreme form of Lord Shiva and he gives 
emancipation to the soul. 
 
For every person, there are eleven rasis that represent the eleven Rudras. These rasis 
bring suffering related to various areas of life. 
 
Out of all the eleven Rudras, the one who brings suffering to the physical self is the 
most important one. In each chart, there is one planet that plays this role. That planet 
is simply called “Rudra”. That planet stands for the suffering and destruction of the 

=== PAGE 194 ===
 
 
 
 182 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
native. There are three rasis designated as Trishoola rasis and they bring death. Let 
us see the astrological defintions. 
 
Table 32: Eighth House for Rudra Calculation 
Rasi 
Ar 
Ta 
Ge 
Cn 
Le 
Vi 
Li 
Sc 
Sg 
Cp 
Aq 
Pi 
The 8th house 
Sc 
Ge 
Cp 
Sg 
Cn 
Aq 
Ta 
Sg 
Cn 
Ge 
Cp 
Le 
 
Rudra 
 
Consider the lord of the 8th house from (i) lagna and (ii) the 7th house. Find the 8th 
house using Table 32 and not in the normal way50. The stronger of the two planets 
becomes Rudra. If the weaker planet is afflicted, it can also become Rudra. We say 
that a planet is stronger if it conjoins more planets. If both planets conjoin the same 
number of planets, a planet in exaltation or own rasi is stronger. A planet joining 
exalted planets is stronger. A planet aspected by many planets (rasi aspect) is 
stronger. Finally, a planet which is more advanced in its rasi is stronger. We find the 
stronger planet in this manner and it becomes Rudra. However, if the weaker planet 
is debilitated or in an inimical sign and conjoined/aspected by malefics like Mars, 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu, then it becomes Rudra. 
 
Trishoola Rasis 
 
The three trines from the rasi occupied by Rudra in rasi chart represent the three 
spikes of Shiva’s Trishoola/trident. They are called Trishoola rasis. Depending on 
whether a native has short life or middle life or long life, one of the three Trishoola 
rasis kills the native during its Shoola dasa. 
 
Maheswara 
 
The lord of the 8th house from AK (chara atma karaka) is called Maheswara. AK 
stands for the soul and the 8th lord from him stands for the liberation of soul. He 
represents the channels through which one’s soul strives for liberation. 
 
                                                 
50 For odd rasis, we count houses zodiacally. For even rasis, we count houses anti-zodiacally. For 
Brahma and Vishnu rasis, we use the regular motion. For Shiva rasis, we use Shiva’s motion. That is 
how Table 32 is constructed. Shiva’s rasis and Shiva’s motion will be discussed in “Narayana Dasa”. 

=== PAGE 195 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
183 
 
 
 
There are a couple of exceptions: 
 
(1) If the 8th lord from AK is in own rasi or exaltation rasi, then take the stronger of 
the 8th and 12th lords from him. Suppose AK is Mars and he is in Ge. Then the 8th 
house from AK is Cp and Saturn is Maheswara. Now let us say that Saturn is 
exalted in Li. From Saturn (Li), Venus owns the 8th house (Ta) and Mercury 
owns the 12th house (Vi). The stronger of Mercury and Venus becomes 
Maheswara. 
(2) If Rahu or Ketu joins AK or the 8th from him, then we find the 6th lord from AK 
instead of the 8th lord. Please note that this is equivalent to taking the 8th lord in 
the anti-zodiacal order. Suppose AK is Mars and he is in Taurus. Then Sg is the 
8th house from Mars and Jupiter, lord of Sg, becomes Maheswara. Now, suppose 
Ketu is in Ta or Sg. Because of Ketu’s presence, we find the 6th house from Mars 
instead of the 8th house. It is Li. Venus owns it and he becomes Maheswara. 
(3) If Rahu becomes Maheswara, we take Mercury instead. If Ketu becomes 
Maheswara, we take Jupiter instead. 
 
14.4 The Method of Three Pairs 
 
This method allows us to determine the approximate range of one’s longevity. In this 
method, we look at 3 pairs of planets/mathematical points. In each pair, we look at 
the two planets and see if they occupy a movable or fixed or dual rasi. Using Table 
33, we look at the longevity category corresponding to the combination. 
 
(1) Lagna lord and 8th lord (find the 8th house and its lord using Table 32) 
(2) Moon and Saturn 
(3) Lagna and Horalagna (HL) 
 
Table 33: Longevity Category for Each Pair 
Combination 1 
Combination 2 
Result 
Fixed + Dual 
Movable + Movable 
Long life 
Movable + Fixed 
Dual + Dual 
Middle life 
Movable + Dual 
Fixed + Fixed 
Short life 
 

=== PAGE 196 ===
 
 
 
 184 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Long life means 72-108 years. Middle life means 36-72 years. Short life means 0-36 
years. We learnt how to find the longevity category corresponding to each pair. Now, 
we should learn how the results of the three pairs can be combined for one final 
result. 
 
If all the three pairs result in the same longevity category, that will be the combined 
classification. If two pairs give one result and the third pair gives a different result, 
then the result given by two pairs dominates. Parasara gave further hints regarding 
this case and suggested finding the maximum longevity (paramaayush) of a person 
using Table 34. 
Table 34: Paramaayush Reckoner 
 
Two 
Pairs 
Third Pair 
Short life 
Middle life 
Long life 
Short life 
32 years 
64 years 
96 years 
Middle life 
36 years 
72 years 
108 years 
Long life 
40 years 
80 years 
120 years 
 
If all the three pairs give three different results (i.e. one giving short life, one giving 
middle life and one giving long life), then we should give preference to the third pair 
of lagna and horalagna. However, if Moon is in lagna or the 7th house, then the 
second pair of Moon and Saturn should be given preference. 
 
Example 47: Let us say that lagna is in Ta, HL is in Ar, Moon is in Ta, Mercury is in 
Cn, Venus is in Cp, and Saturn is in Ge. 
 
Pair 1: Lagna lord Venus is in Cp, a movable rasi. The 8th house is in Ge (see Table 
32) and Mercury owns it. He is in Cn, another movable rasi. Looking for the 
combination “Movable + Movable” in the table, we see that “long life” is the result. 
Pair 2: Moon is in Ta, a fixed rasi. Saturn is in Ge, a dual rasi. Looking for the 
combination “Fixed + Dual” in the table, we see that “long life” is the result. 
Pair 3: Lagna in Ta, a fixed rasi. Horalagna is in Ar, a movable rasi. Looking for the 
combination “Movable + Fixed” in the table, we see that “middle life” is the result. 
 

=== PAGE 197 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
185 
 
 
 
We see that two pairs indicate long life and one pair indicates middle life. So “long 
life” dominates and the native has long life. Using Table 34, we see that the 
paramaayush for this case is 108 years. 
 
14.5 The Eighth Lord Method 
 
Parasara and Jaimini prescribed another method for estimating the longevity 
category. Find the stronger of lagna and 7th house and take it as the reference. Find 
the 8th lord from it and see where he is placed from it. If he is in a quadrant, long life 
is indicated. If he is in a panaphara, middle life is indicated. If he is in an apoklima, 
short life is indicated. 
 
Example 48: Let us say that lagna is in Ar and Li is stronger than Ar. Then we take 
Li as the reference. The 8th lord is Venus. If Venus is in Li, Cp, Ar or Cn (i.e. a 
quadrant from Li), it shows long life. If Venus is in Sc, Aq, Ta or Le (i.e. a 
panaphara from Li), it shows middle life. If Venus is in Sg, Pi, Ge or Vi (i.e. an 
apoklima from Li), it shows short  life. 
 
Exercise 23: Consider the rasi chart shown in Chart 8. Identify the maraka planets in 
this chart. Find Rudra, Trishoolas and Maheswara. Finally estimate the longevity 
category of the native using the method of three pairs and the eighth lord method. 
 
14.6 Conclusion 
 
The definitions and methods given in this chapter will be useful in timing death 
using dasas. The two methods of outlined here for determining the longevity 
category are not infallible. There are some exceptions not covered in this book. So 
one should not be biased by these calculations. 
 
It is worthwhile to emphasize once more that this knowledge should not be misused 
for fame or for scaring clients. One should only gently caution clients and prescribe 
remedial measures. Sages have warned that one misusing the knowledge of astrology 
will live in misery and distress. 
 

=== PAGE 198 ===
 
 
 
 186 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
14.7 Answer to Exercise 
 
Exercise 23: 
 
Marakas: Jupiter and Venus own the 2nd and 7th houses. Rahu is in the 7th house. 
These three planets are the main marakas. Mercury owns 8th and joins Jupiter and 
Venus. So he may also be considered a maraka. 
Rudra & Trishoola: The 8th house from lagna is Sg (see Table 32) and its lord is 
Jupiter. The 8th house from Ta (the 7th house) is Ge and its lord is Mercury. Mercury 
is stronger, as he is more advanced in his rasi. He is Rudra. Rudra is in Libra. So 
Trishoola (Destroyer Shiva’s trident) has spikes in Ge, Li and Aq. 
Maheswara: Mercury is AK. The 8th from him is Ta. The 8th from him has Rahu. So 
we take the 6th from Li and get Pi. Its lord Jupiter is Maheswara. 
Method of Three pairs: Lagna lord and 8th lord show middle life (fixed+movable). 
Moon and Saturn show middle life (fixed+movable). Lagna and horalagna show 
short life (fixed+fixed). So the longevity category is “middle life” (36-72 years). The 
native died at the age of 50 years. 
The Eighth Lord Method: Lagna is stronger than the 7th house. So let us take Sc as 
the reference. The 8th lord from it is Mercury. He is in an apoklima from Sc (12th). So 
the result is “short life”. This method did not work here. 

=== PAGE 199 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
187 
 
 
 
15.  Strength of Planets and Rasis 
 
15.1 Introduction 
 
When judging the results given by houses and planets, we have to judge their 
strength. Sometimes we have to compare the strength of two planets and see which 
one will dominate. For example, when finding the arudha pada of a house falling in 
Scorpio, we learnt that we have to take the stronger of Mars and Ketu as the lord of 
Scorpio. In several rasi dasas, dasas start from the stronger of lagna and the 7th 
house. We need to be able to compare them and judge which is stronger. A house 
may be influenced by several planets and they may suggest contradictory results. In 
such a case, we need to decide which influence dominates. 
 
There are different ways of measuring the strengths of planets and rasis for different 
purposes. We will learn some of them in this section. 
 
15.2 Why Different Strengths 
 
Why do we need different strengths for different purposes? Why can’t we use the 
same strength? To understand this, let us consider an analogy. 
 
Suppose X is an engineer. Suppose Y is another engineer with exactly the same 
background and suppose Y comes to the house of X for a few days. Suppose Y 
sleeps in the afternoon and X doesn’t. Suppose it is 1 pm and Y is ready for his 
afternoon nap. Suppose the two engineers have promised a charity in town that they 
would give a big donation together and suppose someone from the charity comes to 
X’s house. Because it is not his house and because he is sleepy, Y is probably not 
going to play a prominent role and X is probably going to talk pleasantries and then 
give a check on behalf of Y and himself. The money is both his and Y’s, but X is in a 
better position to handle it. Shadbalas are similar to this. When two or more planets 
take part in a yoga, the one that is stronger as per shadbala ends up giving the results. 
 

=== PAGE 200 ===
 
 
 
 188 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Both X and Y may have to deal with contractors, workers and vendors for their 
professional work. If Y has better relations with the people he deals with, he will be 
more productive at his work as an engineer. Similarly, strength as per ashtakavarga 
shows the ability of planets to deliver their goods in harmony with other planetary 
forces at work in a chart. Even if a planet has good shadbala, it will be unable to 
deliver its goods if it is at odds with other planets in the chart, i.e. has a low 
ashtakavarga strength. 
 
An engineer who has good relations with workers, vendors and contractors related to 
one project may not go along well with people involved in another project. In that 
case, he will produce excellent results in the former project and he may not be 
effective in the latter. Similarly, a planet may have good ashtakavarga strength in one 
divisional chart and poor ashtakavarga strength in another divisional chart. Then it 
will give its results more effectively in the area of life related to the first chart. 
 
Despite good capabilities and potential to get work done, Y may be unable to get his 
work done if he is depressed about something or if he is absent-minded for some 
reason. If he is in a cheerful state, he may get his work done well. Thus the state one 
is in decides one’s final output. Similarly, a planet must be in a good “avastha” 
(state) to give good results. There are different kinds of states – states related to age, 
states related to alertness, states related to mood and states related to activity. 
 
When one hires an engineer as an employee or when one assigns a project to an 
engineer, one is concerned about how effective he will be in the project. But suppose 
one is considering the same engineer as a partner in business. Then his effectiveness 
in a particular project does not matter much. What matters now is how well rounded 
he is. He should have good overall knowledge of various projects. Vimsopaka bala is 
analogous to this. When we consider the overall effectiveness of a planet in one’s 
life, we no longer look at its effectiveness to give results in a specific area of life. 
Instead, we look at Vimsopaka bala. It shows the overall strength of a planet and its 
ability to play an important role in one’s life (rather than a specific area of life). 
 
If X and Y have to decide who eats a cake first or who gets to drink the only can of 
soft drink left in the refrigerator, they are probably not going to argue about it. Their 
qualifications or productivity at work or mental state or overall ability are not going 
to matter. For something so trivial, they will probably toss a coin or have a friendly 
arm-wrestling or simply do what their friends present in the room suggest. If Y has 
more friends in the room and they say “let Y have it”, then Y is going to have it. 

