ASTRO SECRETS &amp; KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI Edited by : S/o. Sothida Mannan, Jyotish Marthand (Late) Prof. K.S. KRISHNAMURTI This book Astro Secrets and Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Part IV has been published with many authors articles on Rectification of birth time. Students of Astrology following the System: Krishnamurti Padhdhati which has been handed over to us by ourGuruji Jyothish Marthand, Sothida Mannan Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti has been verified earlier, with many horoscopes for rectifying birth time as the querists were not sure about the correctness of birth time. They have given many examples with the method of calculating, birth in various places to arrive at the correct chart and offer results clearly to the pinpoint and satisfy the Querist. Articles selection of muhurtham as per sub lords are written, explaining how to choose favourable days, stars, lagnas, subs for any chart to start any work to buy lands jewels to start business, to join service etc. which are really a boon for those who read them. Moreover different methods of Dasas, Bukthis are also explained in length i.e. Vimshodari Dasa, Astothari Dasa system Kalachaktra Dasa system, Lagna Dasa system etc. VII Articles on Nakshathra Ganitham, timing of marriage etc are also dealt with in length. If the readers go through these articles written in simple, lucid manners it can be understood easily and implement for predicting purposes without any doubt. It is really worth investing and possessing this book as a treasure in your book collection and professional works. I pray the Almighty Lord Uchchishta Maha Ganapathy to bless the Editor and Publisher of this book K. Subramaniam, S/o. Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti for a Healthy long, peaceful life for many more years so that he can publish many more books on different heads and help K.P. followers &amp; readers. Best of Luck. ARUDHRA RECTIFICATION METHOD Birth Time and its Exact Meaning Before we start to cast a horoscope, we must be able to ascertain the correct time of birth. Generally, no birth is recorded correctly with the particulars to Hour, minute and second. No two watches agree, the birth time is noted with the help of a wrist watch or the wall clock in Hospitals and many of them do not show correct time! Then what is the remedy? The rectification method, in K.P. System, gives you a helping hand. First of all we should know what is a birth time. As soon as the child is separated from the mother, with the umbilical chord still connecting the two, the nose, ear, mouth of the child, are cleared by cotton, and now the umbilical chord is severed, the child is denied of oxidized blood, its gets a suffocation, and the child cries for its life! The air enters its mouth, fills up the lungs with air, and the sudden rush of air gives a kick to the diaphragm below, and it starts functioning till the end of life!! Hence, by its first cry; the child takes oxygen (Pranan) and announces to the world that it is an independent soul and does not need the help of the mother any more and can like on any goates or cow’s milk. Till the child cries, it is the part and parcel of the mother, just like any other limb of hers and -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 1 now, it is an individual soul and life. This moment of getting its life, is the right time of the birth of the child. How many of us are aware of this and how many of the Doctors and nurses record such correct timings! After separation from the mother, the will take five or ten minutes child to cry. Sometime, the child will forget to cry, and the doctors give a beating to the child and make it cry, otherwise, it will die! And one good friend, a doctor, asked me about the caesarian birth, and what time should be taken as the birth time, where the operation lasts for some hours. I told him it is as usual as the mother gets her labour pain for many hours, and whatever may be the process, the first cry of the child should be recknoned as the correct time of birth!! The doctor again, interrupted me, and said that could it not be possible, to make a child bom at an auspicious moment by a caesarian birth? I told the doctor what will happen if a child forgets to cry at all? And how do the doctors know as to when will the child cry and how long the surgery will take place? And in K.P. System, even 30 or 40 seconds of difference in birth times, will give a wide difference, in their life! Therefore, it is quite essential that all birth time is rectified by applying K.P. method, a unique technique of rectification. The ruling planets at the time of casting a horoscope, the right clue, to ascertain the birth time gives. How? To-day it is 22nd March 1984, and you are getting a horoscope born at 7.00 a.m. on 10.5.1948 at Tanjore for casting. It is ‘ - R.B.T. - 2 10.30 a.m. now, at Madras. The ruling planets are hereunder Day Lord Thursday.JUP Moon sign &amp; Star Lord (Anusham in Scorpio sign) . Mars-Sat Asc sign star lord (Rohini in TAURUS)... VEN-Moon These planets should be inserted into the lagna to be cast for 10.5.1984 at 7.00 a.m. If you insert these planets this will give (he right time of birth as noted below &gt; Sign lord, Star lord Sub lord, Sub, Sub lord VEN...MOON...MARS...JUP (Saturn omitted as it is retograde to day) i.e. TARUS11 °16” 23”) This is the nirayana lagna cusp of the horoscope. Add Ayanamsa of 1948 to the lagna cusp and work out the corresponding sayana houses from the table of houses and also the Sidereal time. The difference of time between sidereal time (given for 5.30 A.M. in the ephemeris for 10.5.1948) and the sidereal time of birth added to 5.30 A.M. is the correct time of birth. Note : The process of 10 sec correction per hour and L.M.T. should be employed, as per procedure) - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 3 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME When one is doubtful about his exact time of birth, but says that it may be around 15 minutes this way or that is there any method by which one can find out the exact moment of birth? Answer: I shall give some of the methods which are available. How far you can rely on them, is left entirely to you, to the readers and to the research scholars. (1) Convert the approximate time of birth given in I.S.T. to Vighatis after Sunrise. (Sunrise will be given in L.M.T. convert to I.S.T.). Multiply by 4 and divide by 9. The remainder is the number of the star counted from Aswini, Makham or Moolam. Suppose Sun rises at 6 A.M. Birth is at 8 A M. That is, the birth took place 2 hours after Sunrise. 1 Day = 60 Ghatis = 3600 Vighatis 1 Hour = 2y z Ghatis = 150 Vighatis 1 Ghatis = 24" Min. = 60 Vighatis 1 Minute = 2 Vighatis 1 Vighatis = 24 Seconds If the birth is 2 hours after Sunrise then it means it is 5 Ghatis=300 Vighatis. Multiply by 4 and divide by 9 . Then 300x4 - 1200 =133 2 “9- = ~9 133 9 - R.B.T. - 4 Remainder is 3. It means that Moon at the time of birth should be in the nakshathra which is the 3rd from Aswini or Makham or Moolam i.e., it may be Karthikai or Uthrapalguni or Uthrashada. But, suppose the star is Chithra, then one is to find out that Vighati, next to the number of Vighatis given by consultant. He mentioned 8 a.m. =300 Vighatis after sunrise. So you should add or subtract 1 Vighatis or 2 or and so on till you get the remainder 5 which shows the three stars Mrigasirisha, Chithra and Dhanishta. Therefore if one gets 305 Vighatis or 296 Vighatis the remainder after multiply by 4 and dividing by 9 will be only 5. But the person says that it may err to a maximum of fifteen minutes either way. Then find how many Vjghatis will yield the same result. The following Vighatis will give the remainder 5. 278; 287; 296; 305; 314; 323; 332; 341 and so on. 278 Vighatis is after 7.45 A.M. and 241 Vighatis is before 8.15 A.M. Which will you give? (2) Another method mentioned is as under- Note where Mand i was at the time of birth. The lagna sign will be either 5 or 7 or 9 or 1 when counted from the -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 5 sign occupied by Mandi-(Then alternatives are given-either to Moon or lagna, either in rasi or navamsa). If Mandi and Lagna are to be in 1,5,7 or 9 the consultant asks, why then the same author gives the results of Mandi occupying any house from lagna, i.e., the first, second, third, fourth etc., up to 12. How to reconcile? If the sign is to be either 5 or 9, (for example) it can be useful to find the lagna, correct to 30°. If navamsa is taken, the position of Lagna is correct to 3° 20 4 . A s the navamsa lagna changes roughly once in 13 to 14 minutes, how far will this calculation give a precise answer? (3) In Uthra Kalamrita, it is said that the interval between Sunrise and the time of birth is to be converted into Vighatis. Divide by 225. Then males are born if the remainder is between 0 and 15; or 45 and 90; or between 150 and 225. Females are bom if the remainder is between 15 and 45 or between 90 and 150. According to this method, we have to multiply 53% Ghatis by 60 (he has taken the time of birth as 53% Ghatis) to convert them to Vighatis, thus=53%x60 or215x15. This has to be divided by 225. Thus, 215x15*225=14!4 This falls within the first group of 15 which shows that the sex is male. The - R.B.T. - 6 mistake is that when 215x15 is divided 225, it goes 14 times and the remainder is 75,. Luckily 75 remainder also shows ‘male. In the first example taken, when a first principle is applied the birth may be between 278 and 341 Vighatis. So the remainder may be 53 or 62 or 71 or 80, or 89 or 98 or 106 or 115. So if the consultant is a male (presuming that the horoscope belongs to the consultant) then 55;62;71 ;80 will be one of the timings. If the consultant is a lady, then the number of Vighatis will be 98 or 106 or 115 when both the rules 1 and 3 will be satisfied. (0) Pre-natal-Epoch. Much is said about this. Very briefly let me state how it is not useful to one and all. Suppose two persons are born with the ascendant and Moon as shown below, say, they are born at an interval of 30 minutes on the same day. X hour ChartA LAT Moon 6" X hour Chart B L.17° Moon 6-15 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 7 According to the rules, find where lagna and Moon at the time of Epoch to A and Bare. Moon is passing 10° 17° in Aquarius, on the same day, which is the position of Moon on the day of Epoch. Lagna 6° Moon 10° Epoch A Lagna 6-15 Moon 17° Epoch B L.17 0 What is the rule, find out the exact time on the day of epoch when lagna for A will be Gemini 6° and for B lagna will be Gemini 6° 15’. It can be only one minute. If the lagna of Epoch were to be, say, 2 P.M. to A, then for ‘B’ it will be only 2-01 P.M. Now we have to calculate where Moon would be, on the day of epoch, for A at 2 P.M. and for B at 2-01 P.M. It is more or less the same position : probably it moves by 0-5 minute. - R.B.T. - 8 So, in the Epoch chart it is worked out and found that when Gemini 6° rises, on the day of Epoch, Moon was actually in 13° 15'40”. Whereas for B, when the ascendant is in 6° 15, Moon was in 13°16’20”. Now, we have to take that, for ‘A’ in his horoscope, the lagna should be 13° 15’40” and for the chart B, lagna is 13° 16’20”. Think, a while. If one’s lagna on a particular day is 13° 15’40” and the other’s lagna on the same day in 13° 16’20”, what should be the intervl between one’s birth and the other. It can only be 2 minutes. But what is the actual interval-30 mts. Then how far we can boldly declare this to be a method for rectification is to be judged by the readers. Let us take two births actuals. In a hospital on 8-11 -1945 there were two births. One child was born at 5.30 p.m. The same nurse went to the next room and attended upon another lady and another child was born at 6 P.M. on 8-11-1945. Both want to find out the correct time of birth by applying Prenatal Epoch. The horoscope of the child born at 5.30 P.M. on 8-11-1945 at 25° 19’ N and 12° 30’ E and that of the other at 6 PM. in the same hospital are as under: - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 9 Asc 2-16 Ura. 16-35 Asc 29-29 Ura. 16-35 5.30 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Rahu 2-19 SaL24-5l Mars 294 6 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Rahu 2-19 SaL24-$4 Mars 294 Ket 1-19 Kethu 2-19 Moon 24-11 Mercury 6-12 Sun 15-43 Yen 25-16 Jup 15-15 Nep7-J5 Moon 24-26 Mercury 6-14 Sun 15-44 Yen 15-18 Jup 15-15 Nep7-35 Add correction for interval + 0 0 55 Therefore sidereal time for 5.30 P.M. on 8-11-45 at 82° 30’E 20 39 14 (2)The sidereal time for 6 P.M. on 8-11-45 at 82° 30’E 21 9 19 (1 )The ascendant for the latitude of 25° 19’ for the sidereal time 20 hrs. 39 mts. 14 secs. = 51° 6’ (1 )The ascendant for the latitude of 25° 19’ for the sidereal time 21 hrs. 9 mts. 19 secs. = 59° 29’ A couple may have pleasant time every night. Yet, one cannot say which night function would have been fruitful. The day itself is not definite. Further, the male spermatozoa can enter into'female ova at any time after copulation within - R.B.T. - 10 a period of 38 hours. Therefore at which moment, the epoch commences, nobody can say, even though one knows the few minutes of pleasure. Generally, from the time of epoch, the growth commences and the intrauterine life will be found nine months, i.e., nine solar months or ten lunar months. 1 .There may be an increase or decrease in this period. It is found that it depends upon four factors :i.e., (a) whether Moon was waxing-Sukla Paksha, increasing in light or the longitude between Sun and Moon is increasing from the New Moon; or (b) Moon was waning-Krishna Paksha, decreasing in light or the longitute between Sun and Moon decreasing from the time of Full Moon; (c) whether Moon is found above the horizon, anywhere in the houses 12, 11, 10, 9,8 or 7; (d) or Moon is found below the horizon, anywhere in the houses 6,5,4,3,2 or 1. Then, the period of intea-uterine life in above nine solar months is (a) Waxing Moon, is below horizon (houses 1 to 6) or (b) Waning Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12) and it is less than nine solar months if (a) the Waxing Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12), or (b) the Waning Moon is below horizon houses 1 to 6). II. To find out which sign would have been occupied by Moon on the day of Epoch and which part of the Zodiac -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 11 will be rising at the time of Epoch one is to follow the following rules. Suppose, at the time of birth, it was Sukla Paksha, i.e., Waxing Moon, then the ascendant at the time of Epoch will be the sign and the position of Moon at the time of birth. The day of Epoch is that day on which (around 9 months prior to birth) Moon transited in that sign and around the degree of the lagna at the time of birth. In the above examples, Moon gets separated from Sun. New Moon was over. It is increasing in light. It is called Waxing Moon. As the Lagna in the first example is 21 °6’. Taurus, 7th cusp will be 21 0 6’ Scorpio. Taurus, 7th cusp will be 21° 6’ Scorpio. Therefore Aries, Pisces. Aquarius Capricorn, Sagittarius and the portion between 30° Scorpio and 21 0 6’ Scorpio are above the horizon. Hence the portion of lagna at the moment of Epoch should be 24° 11 ’ Sagittarius (which was the position of Waxing Moon at the time of birth). Further the day of Epoch will be 18th February 1945 (9 months before the birth time) when Moon was transiting around 21 0 6’ Taurus. In the second example, the position of lagna at the time of Epoch will be 24° 26’ in Sagittarius (which was the position of Waxing Moon at the time of birth) and the day of Epoch will be 19-2-4945 when Moon transits 29° 29’ Taurus. - R.B.T. - 12 III. Find the exact time on the day of Epoch when that part of the Zodiac will rise in the East on the day of Epoch which is the position of Moon at the time of birth. For this, one is to take the Table of Houses for the Latitude at which the mother stayed during those pleasant days. Here in these examples, the mother was during the pleasant days and the painful day, all along, in the same place. So from the Table of Houses for Latitude 25° 19’, look down the column “Ascendant-\Nher\ you come to the 7th line on the right side page, you will find Asc, 24° 15’ Sagittarius when the sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. and 2 secs. If you calculate, you will find that 24° 11 ’ Sagittarius would have risen when the sidereal time was 12 hours 21 minutes 44 seconds. Suppose a child is born on 18-2-1945 and you find the sidereal time at the time of birth of a child is 12 hours 21 min. 44 seconds, then what is the actual time of birth. On 18-2-1945, the sidereal Hrs. Min. Secs time at noon is given as ... But the sidereal time 21 52 22 obtained is 12 21 44 (Add 24 hours) 36 21 44 Then the interval between i | 36 21 44 previous noon and the time 1 1 minus obtained plus the correction at 10 Secs/hour ...J 5 20 — ' 14 29 24 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 13 If you calculate deducting rectification for the interval of 10 secs, per hour, you will get figure 14 hours 27 mts. as the interval between previous noon and the time of birth i.e., 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945. Find out the position of Moon at 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945 Moon at 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945 will be 23° 36' in Taurus. Similarly if one works for the time on 15-2-1945 when Asc 24° 26’ Sagittarius rises, it will be found that the sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. 50 secs, and the time of birth will be 14 hours 30 mts. 30 secs, added to previous noon i.e., 2-28-5 A.M. on 19-2-1945. Calculate the position of Moon for this time 2 hours 28 mts. 5 secs. a.m. on 19-2-1945. It is 23° 36’ in Taurus. Therefore the lagna at the time of birth for one born at 5-30 p.m. is arrived at as 20° 30’ in Taurus and the other born at 6 p.m. is found to be 20° 36’ 1 ”, as the Position of Moon ai the time of Epoch is the Position of lagna at the time of birth, if Moon at birth was waxing. Will this method of rectification be useful? According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati and the simplest method of multiplying the number of Vighatis from sunrise to the time of birth by 4, dividing the product by 9 and counting the star from Aswini trine will give the exact Vigati. - R.B.T. - 14 This method gives confidence, convinces one and proves to be correct. In Brihat Jataka, written by Varaha Mihira In Chapter 26, there are 17 stanzas to cast the horoscope of a person whose time of epoch (impregnation) and also the time of birth is not known. He gives the method to erect a horoscope from the time of query. From this, one can understand that the time of birth and the urge to work out and erect the horoscope of native from the moment of query has a direct bearing. They are inter-linked. There can be no second opinion. Therefore, one is to follow the following method: (1) Note the lord of the day when the query is answered. (2) Note the star at that time i.e. the lord of the constellation in which Moon transits. (3) Find the lord of the sign in which Moon is (4) Who is the lord of the lagna. These planets will be same who govern the sign in which the lagna is, the constellation in it, the sub and the sub-sub Examples: (a) A person wanted to know whether his lagna is Taurus last degree of Gemini first degree, so that he may know - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 15 whether Venus or Mercury is the lord of the lagna. This person visited at 9-5 a.m. on 27-4-1966. The lagna at the time of query was Gemini owned by Mercury. The day is Wednesday governed by Mercury. Moon is in Punan/asu star ruled by Jupiter. It is in its own sign and is aspected by Mars. Hence Mercury, Jupiter, Moon and Mars are the ruling planets at the time of query. The doubt is whether it is Venus sign, Mars star, Saturn sub i.e. between 27°-53’-20” and 30° Taurus or between 0° and 1 o -53’-20" which is jointly ruled by Mercury lord of the sign, Mars, the lord of the constellation and Mercury, lord of the sub. The ruling planets at the time of query have nothing to do with Venus and Saturn. But Mercury and Mars agree. Then what about Jupiter and Moon. As Jupiter is in lagna at the time of query take as Jupiter sub sub. Calculate the time when sub sub of Jupiter will rise on the day of the birth of the native. That is the time of his birth. His lagna is Gemini and its lord is Mercury. Venus is not the lord. No other rule can catgorically eliminate one and correctly give the true lagna. Is not this method convening? 32 of my students who are very intelligent tried to put this method to test. They tested on their horoscopes and they published for the readers to use this method and be benefited. . - R.B.T. - 16 (2) Another person on 3-5-66 asked whether he is born is Scorpio or Sagittarius. The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars. Moon is in Virgo owned by Mercury, the constellation is Chitra governed by Mars. Moon is aspected by Saturn, Mercury and Venus. The doubt is whether the lord of the sign is Jupiter or Mars. Actually the birth will be in Mars sign Scorpio, Mercury Star Jyeshta, Saturn Sub between 27°-53’-29” and 30° Scorpio. It cannot be Sagittarius as the time of query has nothing to do with Jupiter. Next after finding out the sub, one is to calculate when that sign, constellation and sub will rise in the East on the day of birth and when it will be over. In the first case, Gemini sign rose in the East 5 Ghatis 16 Vigatis after sunrise i.e. 316 Vigatis after sunrise. Multiply 316 by 4 and divide by 9. 4 is the remainder. Count from Aswini trine. His star in which Moon transited at the time of birth should be, according to this calculation. Rohini or Hastham or Sravanam. But his star is Jyehta. The remainder should be 9. Then to add or deduct one. Vigati from the time of birth. The nearest one shows the actual Vigati of birth. If you add one more, balance is 12 or 3. If you add one more and do the process remainder is 7 and so deduct one from 316. You get 315. Multiply by 4. The product is 1260. Divide by 9. It goes 140 times -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 17 which may be taken as 139 times and that remainder is 9. When you count from Aswini trine, it agree. Therefore, declare that his time of birth was 315 Vigatis after sunrise on that day, to that locality. The above method alone can clearly fix the position of lagna, give the correct time of birth and convince the consultant. (An Astrologer has to pray; gain the Divine Grace; develop irtuition; but treat this science scientifically; God never fails to guide. He gives the tip to correctly eliminate the incorrect one and select the right one accurately) Another example to decide time to birth : During war time, the clocks showed one hour in advance of actual time. A native born in 1942 has got his horoscope correctly erected for his time of birth. But has got the doubt, whether the time taken for erection of horoscope was actual time of birth from the clock time. His horoscope is given below. According to this, the time taken for calculation was 4- 26 a.m. (correct time). The clock time might have been 5- 26 at the time of birth. The problem is to find out whether the chart below is correct: Time of birth. 4-26 A.M. on — 9-11-42 • - R.B.T. - 18 On 7-4-66 at 7-35 a.m. the ruling planets are as below :- 1. Jupiter: Lord of the day-Thursday 2. Rahu : Lord of the day-Swathi. 3. Venus : Lord of Libra-Thulam (Rasi) in which Moon was transiting. 4. Mars : Lord of the lagna Aries-Mesha. 5. Venus : Lord of the star Bharani rising in the east at 7-35 a.m. Rahu, unaspected by any planet represents lord of the sign Taurus-Rishaba in which it is posited. Lord of Taurus- Rishaba is Venus. Rahu represents Sun, since it is in the constellation Karthik ruled by Sun on 7-4-66. Hence, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus should have ruled native’s time of birth. The native was born on Saturday ruled by Sun. At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 (birth day) exact time, the lagna was Libra-Thulam. Star rising was Chitrai. The sign Libra-Thulam is ruled by Venus. The constellation rising is ruled by Mars. Moon was transiting in Visakam star ruled by Jupiter at the time of birth. Hence at 4-26 a.m. exact time on 8-11 -1942 the ruling planets were Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus. If the birth were to be at 3-26 a.m. (exact time) lagna would have been in Virgo-Kanni ruled by Mercury, the star rising in the east would have been Hastham ruled by Moon. Since Mercury and Moon do not rule the moment of - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 19 analysis, the native could not have been bom at 3-26 a.m. exact time. Let us find out whether 5-26 a.m. exact time corresponding to clock time of 6-26 a.m. might have been the birthtime. At 5-26 a.m. (exact) the star rising was Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam ruled by Venus. Since Rahu and Venus rule the present moment this could have been the birth time. Now how to select? Was it 4-26 a.m. or 5-26 a.m. (both) time exact time, when the birth took place? (1) Find out the lord of the lagna at the moment of analysis. This should have been the sub sub lord rising in the east at the time of birth. (2) At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 find out lord of star rising, lord of the sub rising and lord of the sub sub rising. Lord of the sub sub should be Mars (lord of lagna at the moment of analysis) if 4-26 a.m. exact time were to be correct. At 5-26 a.m. on 8-11-1942 (exact time) sub sub lord of the star rising in east was not Mars. Hence the native should have been born at 4-26 a.m. on 9-11 -1942 corresponding to the clock time 5-25 a.m. since the clock showed one hour in advance of actual of exact time. . - R.B.T. - 20 analysis, the native could not have been born at 3-26 a.m. exact time. Let us find out whether 5-26 a.m. exact time corresponding to clock time of 6-26 a.m. might have been the birth time. At 5-26 a.m. (exact) the star rising was Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam ruled by Venus. Since Rahu and Venus rule the present moment this could have been the birth time. Now howto select? Was it4-26 a.m. or 5-26 a.m. (both) time exact time, when the birth took place? (1) Find out the lord of the lagna at the moment of analysis. This should have been the sub sub lord rising in the east at the time of birth. (2) At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 find out lord of star rising, lord of the sub rising and lord of the sub sub rising Lord of the sub sub should be Mars (lord of lagna at the moment of analysis) if 4-26 a.m. exact time were to be correct. At 5-26 a.m. on 8-11-1942 (exact time) sub sub lord of the star rising in east was not Mars. Hence the native should have been born at 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 corresponding to the clock time 5-25 a.m. since the clock showed one hour in advance of actual of exact time. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 21 HORA AND ITS USE The ecliptic is the apparent pathway of the Sun in the Heavens. The planets and the other luminary Moon, follow their own individual tracks with he along the ecliptic on north and south of it. This width on either side is about 7%° and hence the pathway of the planets is around 15° in width having the ecliptic in its centre. This is called the Zodiac. If one observes, it will appear that the whole Zodiac goes round the earth once a day, i.e., once in 24 hours and the same portion of the Zodiac rises in the east in 23 hours 56 minutes and a few seconds. As the Zodiac is divided into 12 equal parts called Solar mansion (sign or rasi) (Mesha-Aries to Meena-Pisces), each division win be appearing in the east, roughly for a duration of 2 hrs. In other words, the previous sign will appear to rise up in the heavens and the next sign will commence to rise nearly two hours after the previous sign began to rise. Hence the 12 signs rise in the east, roughly at an interval of 2 hours. The Hindu astrologers have subdivided each sign into two halves and called such a division as a Hora. Hence roughly one hour is needed for each Hora to rise in the east or pass through the Meridian. But the Hindu astrologers, in olden days, did not calculate the time in hours and - R.B.T. - 22 minute!!. They used to measure in Ghatis and Vigatis or Naligai and Vinadi. Hence a day is of 60 Ghatis. Hence each sign is approximately 5 Ghatis and half of a sign or a Hora will be about 2J4 Ghatis. Pharos in Chaldean star lord says: In remote and ancient Chaldean the knowledge of the stars and the framing of the Zodiac were the results of the Divinely Inspired Gifts to the wise men. The book of Genesis, the Mosaic Era, the Baby-Ionic and Hindu Empires were non-existent when the Chaldean sages laid down the axiom that ‘Obstral spheres exert ‘Obtinual influence on terrestrial life. ‘Chaldeans followed the Hora and found out the influence of the planets over the affairs, of the people. Also it was said that certain hours are advantageous for certain matters and certain hours are unfortunate for. some affairs. This method of prediction is called ‘Hora’. The ‘Hindus’ also were aware that certain matters thrive in some hours (i.e., 21 Ghatis periods) and some fail in certain hours (21 Ghatis periods). Both the Hindus and the Chaldeans do not follow the same calculations to find out which planet rules a particular time-though the order of the planets is the same. First, let us know something about the days and then about the hour or otherwise called ‘Hora’. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 23 Sunday Tamil Nyayiru, Telugu Adhivaram, others- Bhanu-varam, Ravivaram etc., in India. Planet in English Sun, Tamil-Suryan, Sanskrit- Ravi German-Sonnag (Sonne), Dutch Zondag (Zon). Monday Thingal. Somavaram etc., in India. English-Moon, German-Montage (Mond), French-Lundi (Lune), Italiati-Lunedi (Luna), DutchooMaandag (Maan) etc. Tuesday Sewai- Mangaltfar etc. English-Mars, French- Mardi (Mars), Italian-Manedi (Mars). Wednesday Budha-English Mercury, Italian-Mercoledi (Mercury), French-Mercredi. ThursdayGuru, Brihaspathi, Viyazhan, English-Jupiter- Italian-Giovedi (Jove), Dutch-Donderdag, German, Thor. Friday Sukra, Brigu, Velli; English-Verus, Italian-Venerdi (Venus). French-Vendredi (Venus). Saturday Sani, Mandha, English-Saturn, Dutch-Zaterdag (Saturn). The results signified by the planets do predominate in the above order. Hence the names of these days are arrived at according to the effects agreeing with the particular planet. . - R.B.T. - 24 Probably, the same effects repeat once in 7 days and hence only seven days in the week are fixed; e.g., on Sunday some matters flourish; on Monday some other affairs thrive and after 7 days, the same matters have advantage on Sundays, Mondays etc. As regards the Hora division, the Hindus do not take the time of sunrise for their calculations. They follow strictly according to the time mentioned below: Hours Days From-To Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat 6- 7.a.m. Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat 7-8. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup 8-9. ” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 9-10. " Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun 10-11." Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven 11-12." Noon Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere 2-1. p.m. Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 1-2. " Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven ' Sat 2-3. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup 3-4 Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 4-5. " Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun 5-6. ” Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven 6.7. " Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere 7-8. " Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 8-9. " Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat 9-10. " Ven Sat Sun ►Moon Mars Merc Jup 10-11.” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 11-12." Moon Mars Merc JuP Ven Sat Sun 12-1. a m. Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Venus 1-2. " JuP Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc 2-3. " Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 3-4 " Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat 4-5. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup 5-6. ” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 25 From the table it may be observed that the planets rule the hours in an order which is the alternate days in the reverse order. Suppose Sun rules a particular hour. Then note, in the reverse order, the days of the week. The alternate one is Friday ruled by Venus. Hence Venus rules the hour, after that of the Sun. Similarly, Thursday is before Friday and Wednesday is the alternate one in the reverse order to Friday. Wednesday is ruled by Mercury. Hence Mercury rules the hour after Venus. Thus the order of the hours is worked out. It will be a pleasant surprise to note that after 24 hrs., that planet which rules between 6 and 7 A.M. is the same planet which governs the day. Therefore, irrespective of sunrise, the locality and the part of the year in which one wants” to find the planet ruling a particular, time, simply refer to the above table. But Westerners and Chaldeans calculate in a different manner. They divide the interval between the time of sunrise and noon into 6 equal parts and each will be little more or less than an hour depending upon the interval between sunrise and noon. Similarly the interval between Moon and sunset is divided into 6 equal parts. Likewise, the time from sunset to midinight and from midnight to sunrise is worked out. - R.B.T. - • 26 Suppose one wants to note the time when Saturn will rule its hour on Wednesday, so that one can avoid (a) to sign an agreement in that period or (b) to fix the marriage during that time or (c) to meet a person to negotiate any transaction etc. Adopt the following principle: (1) What is the Indian Standard Time of Sunrise in that locality on that day? Let it be 5-10 A. M. (2) What is the Indian Standard Time at noon in that locality on that day? Let it be 11-59 A. M. (3) Therefore, the difference between Sunrise and noon will be 6 hrs. 49 min. (4) Divide this by 6. Then you get 1 hour 7 min. for each division. (5) The day selected is a Wednesday. Hence from sunrise 5-10 a.m. to 6-17 a.m. Mercury rules the time. The next is governed by Moon. Hence 6.17 a.m. to 7-24 a.m. is ruled by Moon. The next belongs to Saturn; i.e. Saturn is the lord for the duration from 7 -24 a.m. to 8-31 a.m.,. Therefore this period is governed by Saturn on a Wednesday ruled by Mercury. Therefore this conjoined period of Saturn and Mercury are to be avoided for such action- as mentioned above. When this conjoined period operates in the night and one spends his pleasant time. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 27 with his wife, he can avoid birth of children. This is an effective method of ‘birth’ control’ as both Saturn and Mercury are effeminate planets. But people, planting fruitbearing trees in such conjoined planetary hours, will have very poor yield: the loss will be not only due to locust, pest, rats, etc. but also due to the scarcity of water-supply and fertiliser. Hence for every action, one is to note which planets will contribute for peace, prosperity, success, etc., and which planets are detrimental. Accordingly one can make a selection and enjoy the fruits. (Now the question arises, whether one can come out successful by selecting such periods, even though he runs a very bad period according to dasa or according to progression, people running bad time (a) will never follow this, or (b) even if he tries to follow he will do in the evil sub-division of the planetary hour. What is the sub division?) The planetary hour is sub-divided among the 7 planets Uust as, a dasa is divided among 9 planets as bhuktis and each bhukti is again subdivided among the same 9 planets called antharams.) The first subdivision belongs to the planet which rules the hour and then the sub divisions are governed by the other planets in the same order. Suppose the hora hour is ruled by Venus; then the first subdivision belongs to Venus - R.B.T. - 28 and the’ other 6 subdivisions will be governed by Mercury, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun. What is the use of this sub-division? (1) Just as on a Wednesday, the hora of Saturn is to be avoided for some actions and transactions, so also, in the few minutes of the conjoined periods of Saturn sub-division in the Mercury hora ahd Mercury sub-division in Saturn’s hora are to be avoided. (2) If a person enjoys Jupiter dasa, Moon bhukti, he can undertake to do any important work during the hora of Jupiter and sub of Moon. (3) If Mars dasa, Jupiter bhukti operates to one, and if the judge announces the judgement favourable to one, then the time at wtlich he pasess it, will be during Mars hora, Jupiter sub or Jupiter hora Mars sub or Mars day (Tuesday) and Jupiter hora or Jupiter day (Thursday) and Mars hora. In the latter case the sub will be ruled by either ofthe two or any other significator contributing to his Success. 14) If one wants to construct a building, he prefers the conjoined hora of Mercury and Mars. (5) One desiring to get married, will select the conjoined planetary hour of Venus and Jupiter. The above is general. Further while selecting a Hora the most important factor has seen omitted which is a - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 29 serious mistake i.e., (a) one does not take into consideration which part of the Zodiac rises in the East and what the lagna is (b) nor does one consider the position of planets at the time and their relative position to the ascendant, to the cusp of that house which signifies the particular matter and to the karaka planet which also rules the same matter. Indeed, these three are the important investigations to be made while electing a muhurtha. But for common undertakings and the usual daily business Hora will be helpful to offer confidence, peace of mind and mostly success. Sun-Hora: Sun is the lord of Sunday. The Hora of Sun will be most potent whenever Sun is strong i.e., whenever Sun transits in its exalted or own sign and in its constellation, Karthikai, Utrhram, Uthradam. Sun governs vitality, immunity and speedy recovery from disease. Hence, to take medicine or to undergo surgical operations, solar hour is auspicious. As Sun indicates power, authority, influence, dignity, honour and reputation, either to take charge of the following posts or to. meet such people for assistance, select Sun Hora. Father, Government officials, President-Sun, Mars’ and Jupiter combination; Vice-President. Sun, Mercury and Mars’ Governor.Sun, Mercury and Jupiter; Mayors, Judges-Sun, Jupiter and Venus; Physicians-Sun, Mercury and Jupiter; Surgeons-Sun, Mercury and Mars, etc. Sun Hora is beneficial for signing contracts-Sun, Mercury and Jupiter to commit forgery or to undertake Hand-writing Thumb impression expert Post Sun, Mercuryand Saturn to register documents, to approach for favour, to execute a will to let on lease, to appeal for promotion, to complain to the police-about the lost property, to have mantras initiated and to concentrate, to enter into politics, etc., to purchase rice, cardamom, pepper, chilly almond, groundnut, cocoanut, aromatic herbs, trees with thorns, orange coloured articles, etc. One can commence praying to Suryanarayana.Lord Vishnu and also give Gold to make jewels, etc, For vaccination, inoculation, etc., prefer this hour.. Also, people who are governed by Sun or who have Sun as., their ruling planet may pray to God for peace, and prosperity during Sun’s Hora. Moon Hora Moon is lord of Monday, The Hora of Moon will be very predominating on (a) Mondays, (b) Rohini star day and (c) whenever Moon transits in its own sign, exalted sign -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 31 and in Hastham and Sravanam star days. Also it is advantageous to note whether Moon occupies the kendra position counted from the ascendant during the Hora of Moon, when it is strong. Approach people duringlMoon Hora. Even the strong willed persons will yield. If you have to carry out the orders of a lady and if she is strict, straightforward lady who may be moody also, arrange interview during Moon Hora. The hard paraffin will become the soft paraffin. If you are an agriculturist, all wet land cultivation, planta-tion, digging wells, excavating canals may be done in these hours-Moon Hora on Fridays are good for harvesting sugarcane. If you deal in milk and milk products, dairy farm, etc., Moon Hora on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursday are auspicious to sell boiling milk; Fridays are auspicious to deal in genuine milk; On Mondays for adulterated milk; Saturdays for ice cream, etc. Those who deal in grains, greens, food materials, gur, and those who do business in oils, kerosene petrol, acids, etc., can start business during Moon Hora. Moon Hora on a Monday and Rohini star day is ideal especially during Gothooli Lagna. Pearls, jewels, ornaments, corals, salt fish etc., can be purchased in this Hora. ^ - R.B.T. - 32 Suppose you buy a marshy land, knowingly or unknowingly during Moon Hora, you will have much appreciation of capital value. Moon, the fastest moving planet, suggests that Moon Hora is advantageous for safe and successful overseas journey. Divers should select Moon Hora, but the lagna should not be afflicted by Saturn, if they want fortune. Musicians select, Moon Hora on Mondays or Fridays for fertile imagination and melodious tune. Tuesdays are beneficial for those who use drum, Mridangam, Thabla, etc. on Wednesday Moon Hora is favourable for Jalatharangam. If Neptune is in 5th lagna, during Moon Hora and if it is in a sign of long ascension, learn Veena. If it is of sho.rt ascension, take to fiddle. .If Moon is in an airy sign and it is oflong ascension, star Nagaswaram: if the ascendant is of short ascension prefer flute. Thus, analyse and judge. Moon Hora IS preferable for those who get appointment as midwife, nurse, etc. Also it is good to take up service in the Defence Department. You can plan, contemplate and scheme during Moon Hora when the merits and demerits will dawn in your mind and you cannot decide on an impulse or rashly? - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 33 Moon Hora in the night is good. What for, need not be elaborated. For public activities and popularity for platform, speeches etc. Moon Hora is good; especially Thursday. If your mother is rich or your maternal relatives, discuss during Moon Hara, you will become their favourite and you will have gains without pains. On Wednesday during Moon Hora. you can take appoint ment in the Textile Department and you may put on new dress. Hotels may be opened on Tuesday during Moon Hora. So also for drinks. During Moon Hora, pray to Goddess Gouri and Lalitha for peace. Mars Hora Mars rules over Tuesdays. It governs Aries -Mesha and Scorpio-Vrischika. It is the lord of the stars Mrigasirisha, Chitra and Danishta. It gets exalted in Capricorn -Makara. Hence the Hora of Mars will be most potent whenever Mars is strong by transiting in its own or exalted signs or in its stars and on Tuesday, Suppose on a Tuesday, when Mars is in 23° 20' to, 24°-06-40' in Capricorn in exaltation, - R.B.T. - 34 in its own star and own sub it is 3 in its most potent position, especially when it happens to be the 10th house to the lagna rising then during Mars Hora. It is auspicious for the Commander-in chief to prepare for war. It is good to file any suit in a court of law. It is advantageous to argue during Mars Hora and win the case. On a Tuesday, during Mars Hora, try for compromise and fair settlement, purchase lands, start a brick kiln; on Saturdays commence trench or tunnel work. [Trench means, you excavate the earth vertically down whereas Tunnel is horizontal earth, rather rock, removal, mostly for railways. Saturn and Mars indicate trench and tunnel.) If you want to use manure, Mars Hora on a Monday is auspicious. To purchase surgical instruments, Sunday-Mars Hora or the day of the lord of 12 and Mars Hora. To join duty in the military, police or factory, Mars ‘Hora on Tuesday is advantageous. It is lucky to start a press mechanical engineering, industry, building construction, or open electronics shop on a Wednesday in Mars Hora. To join duty in a court of law or take oath as a President, Judge etc., Law, Thursday is propitious. Goldsmiths, jewellers, may have opening ceremony on Thursdays. Fridays are also good. Mars Hora on a Thursday is beneficial for executive officers of temples or industry or church or colleges and schools and those who say - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 35 that they relinquish the world and start preaching to others whether they-practise or not. But those who want to practise, but are not very anxious to teach others can have it on a Saturuay. On Fridays, Mars Hora gives vitality and satisfies the partner. It is good for union for jewellary, for animal husbandry, for leather and hides, for coffee, tea, boarding, lodging, cinema theatre, games, luxury goods, automobile, bullock carts, jutkas, agricultule, timber, furniture, etc., to learn telegraphy; to deal in telephone accessories. To open a mill or factory prefer Wednesday. To prepare arms, spears, instruments, dagger, to excavate, to construct a slaughter house, lethal chamber, to have lead or copper industry, to deal in hides, skins, shoes etc., Saturdays are fortunate. Those who buy land, during Mars Hora, and sign the document in the morning, say, between 6-30 AM and 7 - 30 A.M. having Sun in the 12th bhava. will not enjoy the benefit of the appreciation of land value, as the Government will acquire the land. But those who sign and purchase the property between 8 and 10 A.M. having Sun in the 11 th house: (supposing that Sun rises at 6A.M) will have the full advantage of the high price. You can buy coral, ruby and red coloured articles. Best time to construfct a house would be at a time when Mars is. - R.B.T. - 36 exalted; when Mars Hora is on and the accendant is Scorpio and the degree in Scorpio is between 0° 33%’ to 10 20' which will be Vishaka 4th pada governed by Jupiter and the sub is... Mars. In that case there willJbe no difficulty for the availability of money, building materials etc. There will be the blessing of Providence. For peace and prosperity pray Lord Subramanya or Muruga or Narasimba or Kali or Ganesh. pray Subramanya on Sunday or Tuesday especially when you serve in a military department. On Mondays, start Kali; Badrakali, on Tuesday-Ganesh or Muruga, Veerabhadran, on Wednesdays-Narasimha; on Thursdays- Dhakshinamurthi, Raja Rajeswari; on Fridays- Veera Lakshmi and Lakshmi Narasimha. on Saturdays- Venkatesa, Venkatachalapathy, lyyappan. Mercury-Hora Budha, Mercury is the lord of Wednesday. Mercury Hora is very strong and powerful on Wednesdays during the time, when Mithuna or Gemini or Kanni-Virgo, rises in the East and on Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi star days, especially Revathi. Admits boys ,and girls in schools and colleges on a Mercury -day during Mercury Hora. Even the dull-witted will come out in bank. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 37 One can start memorising from Mercury Hora, poetry important stanzas, etc. Prefer Mercury Hora to deliver a speech especially on Thursdays. So also, accept the post of a teacher or professor. Accountants, auditors, mathematicians can select Thursdays and Mercury Hora. Painters, drawing masters, artists and dancers can commence on Fridays in Merrcury Hora. Editors, publishers, book-sellers, printers, press owners, publicity organisations can start functioning on Tues-days in Mercury Hora-most efficient work will be done if one commences during Mercury Hora. Daily newspapers, almanacs, ephemeris, ambassadors, agents, representatives, brokers, auctioneers can begin on Wednesdays. Typists, should prefer Tuesdays, and Shorth and writers should select Saturdays. Treat neurasthenic patients and those who suffer from Vitamin B deficiency during Mercury Hora. Those who commit forgery, or fraud, do it during Saturdays, Mercury Hora or Wednesdays is Saturn Hora. Those who take service in the Postal department, Telegraph and Telephone Offices, overseas communication Engineering correspondence, etc., or purchase lottery tickets, bonds, securities shares, or prize bond etc., must do so on Wednesday Mercury Hora or on the day of the lord of 11 and Mercury Hora. - R.B.T. - ' 38 If you desire to float a compa ny or to underwrite, Mercury Hora is the best. For those who deal in paper, stationery, oil seeds, jute, wheat, quick-silver, emerald, green stone, onions, greengram, watches, telescopes and microscopes, Mercury Hora is very advantageous. If you proceed overseas as an ambassador or as a representative or for foreign studies or for foreign collaboration, prefer Wednesdays or Thursdays and never miss Mercury Hora. Important documents can be drafted during Mercury Hora with advantage. Pray to Lord Vishnu, Rama, Krishna, Anjaneya. etc. Try to concentrate. Vacillation is the only defect. Jupiter-Hora: It is otherwise called Guru, Viyazhan, Brahaspathj, e;tc. It rules over Thursday. The Hora of Jupiter will be very predominating on (a) Thursdays, (b) when Moon transits in Poorvapathrapada 1 to 3 quarter, (c) when Moon transits in Cancern exalted sign of Jupiter and in Sagittarius and Pisces owned by Jupiter and (d) when Moon transits in Punarvasu, Visakha and Poorvapathrapada stars. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 39 Approach people during Jupiter Hora. Do you want over¬ draft facilities from a bank? Meet the proper authorities during Jupiter Hora. If Jupiter a benefic to you? Are you running Jupiter’s period? Then, never miss to meet the ministers or high officials in the Government during Jupiter Hora. Success in your attempts is certain. Have you the desire to study Veda, Astrology, Philosophy, Religion, Law, Economics, Banking etc. Purchase of books and begin to read on a Thursday, preferably on Jupiter’s star day and in Jupiter Hora. Do you deal in gold and silver? Is your income not satis¬ factory? Are you depreised? Open a branch on a Thursday in Jupiter Hora when Jupiter is in direct motion and is strong. You must have decent increase in income. Always make it a point to meet commercial tax and Income-tax officials during Jupiter Hora. The interview will be pleasant, peaceful and profitable. If you are ill and if a physician offers any specific medicine to be taken internally, prefer this Hora. Even to buy a tonic, to take ayurvedic medicine, Jupiter Hora on a Tuesday is advantageous. Establishment of stri Sadhana office for the prevention of prostitution, animal husbandry, construction of temples and charitable institutions, colleges, mutts, libraries, banks, etc., in Jupiter’s Hora will prove to be advantageous. . - R.B.T. - 40 This Hora is very essential to purchase vehicles especially on Friday during Jupiter Hora, or refregerators on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora or lay foundation for houses on Fridays during this hour or take up minister’s post on Sundays or Tuesday in this hora or borrow money on Thursdays or invest on shipping or Petrol Shares on Mondays or take up a job in the educational department or air travel on Wednesdays, etc. Depending on the God or Goddess on its day, during Jupiter Hora, have the initiation of mantras. Note down Jupiter’s hora in the night hours. Be friendly with your partner in life, wife or husband. Even if you had no chance to have a child so far, Jupiterwill not let you down. It will fulfill your desire by giving you a child. If you have already many, avoid this hour. Open bank account, take up the junior auditor’s post or accept the profession signified by Jupiter during its hour. Take up Insurance policy on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora. Your endowment policy will mature and you can eniov the benefit. But if the Insurance agents were to obtain the signature of a person, in a life policy during the conjoined period of Saturn and Mars, the Insurance company will lose heavily, whereas it will be a fortune to the members of the family who outlive the person who has signed his policy during Mars Hora on a Saturday or Saturn Hora on Tuesday. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 41 The Government has to choose Jupiter Hora if they lay foundation for hospitals (on Sundays), shipping (on Mondays); buildings for Police, Military, Magistrate court, law courts, Industry etc. (on Tuesdays); for educational Institution, postal departments, communication, All India radio, textiles,engi-neering, etc. (on Wednesdays); for law college or legal department, temples, churches, charitable institutions, banks, treasury, revenue department international trade etc. (on Thursdays), Animal husbandry, food department, agricul-ture, tea board, coffee board, prohibition department, gold de control etc. (or Fridays); insurance corporation, labour depart¬ ment, mines and minerals, control department, Intelligence dept, retrenchment, famine, refugee, quarters for servants, slaughter house etc. (on Saturdays). Such a beginning promises, (a) no delay and difficulty in completing the project, (b) expansion and improvement, (c) co-operation from the public and their wholehearted support, and (d) fulfilment of the desire of the Government and benefit to the subjects. Venus- Hora : It is otherwise called Sukra, Brigu, Velli, etc. It governs Friday. The Hora of Venus is very strong for Venusian matters (a) on Fridays, (b) on the days when Moon transits in - R.B.T. - ' 42 Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada constellations and (c) when Moon transits in Taurus or Libra or or Pisces which is its exalted sign. If on a Friday, during Venus Hora, when Moon transits in its own star, one comences to do any of the matters signified by Venus knowingly or unknowingly, success is sure. Peace and prosperity are promised. Harmony and happiness can be had. Prefer Venus Hora if you want to meet an officer who is generally impatient, who is a hard task-master and who is moody. You will find that he is calm and co-operating. Even militant type of person, arrogant, foolhardy and rash will give a patient hearing and will be helpful, The temper gets softened during this hour. A cobra may be ferocious due to Mars. But if it takes its food, which is shown byVenus, it is harmless. The fiery nature of Mars will be toned down by Venus. If you have to look at the girl or at the boy before fixing up your marriage, you select Venus Hora if you want to select this “partner, but if you do not like the alliance, you select Mars or Sa turn Hora when the negotiation will fall through and you can be happy. Venus Hora promises harmony and happiness. If you feel/that you are exhausted and you have lost much of your vitality, take medicine, especially Ayurvedic (especially from, Badhana Ayurveda ashramam at Calcutta) on Thursday or Friday during Venus Hora, it will rejuvinate you. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 43 Write love letters during- Venus Hora. You start writing after this hour starts and finish it before this hour is over. Even though you may not normally have command of language to give expression to your love, during Venus Hora, appropriate words will be used by you which will appeal to the partner. If you receive a reply during other Horas, do not be impatient. Wait till Venus Hora starts. Then open the sealed cover and read. You will be very happy. Now you may ask, “she had already written and posted the letter. How can the Hora change the contents of the letter?” The answer is this. Knowingly or unknowingly you can open the letter at any Hora. According to the Hora, you will find the letter. If it is Saturn Hora, then the partner would have mentioned the inability to meet you and she will fix up-some other time. If it is Mars Hora, the tone of the letter will upset you. So, why should you take a chance? Venus Hora will arrange for tea, dinner, cinema, music party, meeting in an unfrequented place, etc. Those who would desire to cultivate love, must prefer Venus Hora. Buy jewels, silk sarees, costly dress, diamond and costly gems, sandalwood, glass, powder, scented oils and scents, eyelass, lipstick etc., during Venus Hora. It will add beauty by moderate use. - R.B.T. - 44 Sow the seed-bulbs, potato, tapioca or groundnut or sesame in this Hora. If you want to sever connection with anybody, this hour win help you. For illegal intimacy this is the best hour. Start petrol, oil, coal, skin, leather and hide business in Saturn Hora. Lay foundation for such business then. If you find It Impossible to lead your life with your wife, do not tell her your programme but disappear during Saturn Hora. If you tell her, she will come to the secluded place selected by you and continue to give trouble. Pray for Lord Venkateswara, lyyappa during Saturn Hora. Prefer this hora to become a sanyasi. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 45 RECTI. CHART RECTIFIED BY K.P. ANALYSIS A Chart drawn according to traditional astrology is as follows: Kahu 4-50 Mars 26-27 Ven 12-33 Sat20-29 Sun 27-54 5.30 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Merc 23-05 Asc. 22-42 Jup 19-16 R Moon 2-11 Kethu 4-50 The time of birth is said to be between 8 to 8-20 p.m. L.M.T. The native is born on 13th July, 1913, Sunday at 24° 01’ N. Lat. and 89° 16’ E. Long. Question : How to rectify the position of Moon? Answer : According to the Chart supplied, Moon is at 2° 11’ in Scorpio. Is it correct? Let us rectify it by the ruling planets at the time of judgment. This Chart is judged at 5-48 p.m. on 12-12-1967. Moon, at this time, falls at 7° 35’ in Sagittarius, The sign, in which the Moon transits, is ruled by Jupiter. Further Moon falls in the constellation of Kethu, in the SUB &amp; SUB SUB of Jupiter. Hence Jupiter is very prominent. - R.B.T. - 46 Let us take the Ascendant for this time, which falls at 8° 32’ in Gemini. Here the sign transited by Ascendant is ruled by Mercury and the Ascendant falls in the constellation and SUB of Rahu. Hence Rahu is also equally porminent. Therefore Jupiter, Rahu and Mercury are the significators. Rahu does not own any sign. It is in Aries owned by Mars. So Rahu is an agent of Mars which is the lorcTof Aries and Scorpio. Now let us pin-point the exact degree position of the Moon according to these significators. In the sign Scorpio, Moon falls in the constellation of Jupiter, SUB of Rahu and SUB SUB of Mercury at 2° 21 ’. Hence this is the exact position of Moon at the time of birth. The corresponding time of birth should be 8-30 p.m. L.M.T. Question No 2 The native is running the Dasa of Venus at present and Venus is lord of 5 and 10, a Rajyogakaraka according to the traditional texts. Further, Venus, is posited in its own sign along with his fast friend Saturn, thus very strong. It is interesting to note that if we disregard the Cusps drawn according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Moon is occupant of 11, whose results Venus is to give, being posited in its constellation. Moon is further lord of 7, a kendrasthana, Saturn in association with Venus has to give similar results. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 47 But why is it that in Venus Dasa ,the native has suffered a lot in finance, health and mental condition, especially during Rahu Bhukti who is occupant of 3rd, an Upachaya or favourable’ sthana’ according to the traditional astrology. Answer :-KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI can solve this PUZZLE. The Ascendant according to the rectified time ofbirth falls at 25° 38' in Capricorn and the revised chart according to Krishnaimurti Padhdhati is as under Rahu 4-50 Mars 26-27 Ven 12-33 Sal 20-29 Sun 27-54 5.30 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Merc 23-05 Asc. 22-42 .lup 19-16 R Moon 2-11 Kethu 4-50 Planet Lord of Constellation Lord of sub Lord of sub sub 1. Moon Jupiter Rahu Mercury 2. Sun Jupiter Venus - 3. Mercury Mercury Moon - 4. Venus Moon Rahu - 5. Mars Venus Kethu - 6. Jupiter Venus Rahu - 7. Rahu Saturn Saturn - 8. Kethu . Sun Saturn - 9. Saturn Moon Venus - - R.B.T. - 48 1 Cusps Cusp-Capricorn 25.38 1 Cusp-Pisces 4.27 III Cusp-Aries 9.27 IV Cusp-Taurus. 7.27 V Cusp-Gemini 2.27 VI Cusp-Gemini 26.27 VII Cusp-Cancer 25.38 VIII Cusp-Virgo 4:.27 IX Cusp-Libra 9.27 X Cusp-Scorpio 7.27 XI Cusp-Sagittarius 2.27 XII Cusp-Sagittarius 26.27 Bhava Chart Bhava ll-Rahu Bhava Ill-Mars Bhava IV-Venus, Saturn Bhava Vl-Sun, Mercury Bhava Vlll-Kethu Bhava IX-Moon. Bhava Xl-Jupiter Dasa System : Jupiter Dasa Balance at the birth 1 year 2 months 5 days. Jupiter Dasa Bhukti From To Balance - 13- 7-1913 18- 9-1914 Saturn - 18- 9-1914 18- 9-1933 Mercury - 18- 9-1933 18- 9-1950 Kethu - 18- 9-1950 18- 9-1957 Venus - 18- 9-1957 18- 9-1977 Venus Venus 18- 9-1957 18-1-1961 Venus Sun 18-1-1961 18-1-1962 Venus Moon 18-1-1962 18- 9-1963 Venus Mars 18- 9-1963 18-11-1964 Venus Rahu 18-11-1964 18-11-1967 Venus Jupiter 18-11-1967 18-11-1970 According to this new Chart, Venus is occupant of 4th Bhava, and lord of 4 and 9, both unfavourable houses from the point of view, of addition to income. 4th house is 10th to 7th and 9th is 3rd to 7th, hence favourable for the opposite party and unfavourable for him. (Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Vol. I.) -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 49 Further both Venus and Saturn have to give the effect of Moon, as they are posited in its constellation. Moon is occupant of 9th Bhava, which is 12th from 10th. 10th house denotes business and as Moon is occupant of 9th, it will give set-backs in business. This is what has actually happened. Further Venus is posited in the SUB of Rahu- and Rahu has to give the effect of Saturn prominently, because it is posited in the constellation and SUB of Saturn. Saturn is occupant of 4th and lord of 1, both unfavourable houses from money point of view. This is why the native has suffered loss during this period. Saturn is posited in the SUB of Venus. Venus is occupant of 4th and lord of 4 and 9, again all unfavourable house.s from point of income. When the native ran Venus Dasa Rahu Bhukti, he suffered a lot in his business, because both of these planets are unfavourable for him. Thus it is fully confirmed that the Charts erected in the traditional way cannot give sound results unless they are rectified,and corrected, according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati. KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI is a solid answer to the confusions, contradictions and desperations born out of traditional texts in astrology. Let this Science bloom and give light to the entire world! [Normally new students will take Moon as in 11th house.Hindu astrologers, will take as 10th house- Krishnamurti and the whole world except traditional Hindu astrologers will, take as 9th house, if they follow strictly the rules and dicta given by our sages and other savants. - R.B.T. - 50 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME As every K. P. follower knows that the sub division in K. P. system plays a vital role in all respects and that the cuspal sub lord is more important that the sub lord of a planet.Except Moon, all other planets remain in a sub for longer number of hours, and a few minutes this way or that way do not matter. But, the ascendant, the fastest of all is very much disturbed by a difference of few seconds and causes a change of sub. The cuspal subs, are the frame of the horoscope. That the cuspal sub remains there, to give a precise results throughout his life. For example, if the 7th cuspal sublord occupies the 6th houses or signifies the 6th house, the native remains unmarried. The position denies the marriage. This is the result. In such cases, what is the use of taking effort of looking for a bride every year for boy? There will be significators of 2,7,11 houses.But what does the 7th cusp sub lord say? It denies the marriage. It is therefore evident that the planets operates through the sub lords of houses with which they are connected and the cuspal sub lords have a definite say in the matter. For marriage the 7th house of a horoscope is analysed. For example, the significator of 7th house, is Jupiter and the cuspal sub lord is Moon. The cuspal sub lord Moon is the significator of 6th house, thus denying the marriage. Suppose the person, runs Jupiter dasa, will it give marriage? -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 51 No. Why? Though the Jupiter signifies 7th house, the cuspal sub lord Moon signifies 6th house. Here the significater of 7th house, Jupiter, holding the portfolio of 7th house, approaches the 7th cuspal sublord Moon who stands at the gates of the 7th cusp and allows the Jupiter to do the. 6th house matter, and poor Jupiter is stripped off its 7th house matters. Therefore a planet for whatever houses it has got a link, it has to operate through the cuspal sub lords of concerned houses. Suppose Venus signifies 3,10,11 houses and the cuspal sub of 3, viz. Rahu signifies 11 th house then, Venus will operate for, 11th house, and 3, 10 to a lesser extent. Because 3 and 10 are improving houses, Rahu do not stand in the way of Venus, operating for 3 and 10 houses, alongwith the 11th house. Trouble arises only with respect to the non-improving houses. Take for example, the 2nd cuspal sub lora, is the significator of 12th house.This is an indication that the financial aspect of the person is at stake throughout his life. What else, if he runs the dasa of a 2nd significator? The financial strain will be lessened to a very meagre, level but the strain will be there for the person. Therefore a K.P. follower should always be careful to cast, a rectified horoscope, by applying the ruling Planets Consultants, naturally will say that their birth time was “correctly " noted, by his father or grand father who were expert astrologers and who knew the in importance of a birth time. And we do not know, whether the father or grand - R.B.T. - 52 father had precise watches and noted the correct “time” of birth, not knowing, the meaning of “birth time”. The birth time is that time of the first cry of the child, when the child takes its first breath which means that the child is now an individual and can no longer needs the help of the mother, for its existance. The time of its getting the ‘first oxygen’ or the pranan is the time of birth of the child. This time can be arrived at only by the application of the ruling planets and not by so many watches worn by father, grand father or the nurse who attended the delivery. Mostly in all cases, the ruling planet will guide to fix the right time of birth. But in certain cases, they do not guide directly. The procedure for rectification of birth time should be followed as detailed below: a) Work out the ruling planets at the time of casting the horoscope. Day Lord Moon sign lord-Moon star lord Lagna sign lord-Lagna star lord b) Calculate the lagna degree for the given birth time and findout the following : i) Lagna lord ii) Lagna star lord iii) Lagna sub lord iv) Lagna sub sub lord -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 53 c) There may not be any problem in fixing b (i) and b (ii) and find out the nearest planet for b (ii) and the commencing point of b (iv) and the sub sub of lagna degree is fixed now. b (iii) is the sub and b (iv) is the sub sub. The exact degree of lagna is arrived now. d) Add Ayanamsa to the degree arrived in ‘c’ for the concerned year and the sayana position is obtained now. The other proportionate sayana cusps are found from the table of houses and the corresponding sidereal time is noted. e) Take the sidereal time of the birth date as found from the ephemeris. Findout the difference of time spent between sidereal time of ephemeris and sidereal time of birth. This time difference, includes the 10 seconds correction per hour. Therefore deduct correction at the rate of 10 seconds per hour. Difference of time. Local Mean time difference. Standard time of birth. The time arrived this way is the right time of birth for the child. GOOD LUCK - R.B.T. - 54 EASY WAY OF RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Rectification of birth time is a difficult task in Astrology. When we erect chart according to K.P. System, the correct time of birth is necessary as it change the sub lords of the cusps in few minutes difference. As the cuspal sublords the vital key for preduction in K.P. System, the accurate time of birth is esential. Though ther are many method of rectification of birth time, we have confusion as which method is correct. I give below some hints for rectification of birth time blending with numerology. This method is simple and accurate and tested in large number of charts. This formula depends upon the status of one’s hier archg in that family, as first second, third issue in family, suppose if one is been on first issue in a family,the lagna cusp sublordmust be either ketu or mars or sun Second issue Ven, Moon, Merc. Third issue - Jup Forth issue - Rahu Fifth issue Mercury Sixth issue Venus Seventh issue Ketu Eight issue Saturn Nineth issue - Mars -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 55 There are some rules for fixing up the lagna cuspsub lord. Suppose if the cusp sub lord is in retrogession, reject it and take the star lord of the 1 st cusp Is also in retrofression take the sign lord ofthelst cusp. The first cusp sub lord and its star lord also taken into consideration. Reptconjunction of the sub lord of the first cusp with some other planet may also be the sub lord. For example if the sub lord of the 1 st cusp is mars and it rapty conjoined with Jupiter, he may be third issue in his family as Jupiter indicates 3 here mars gives his power to Jupiter. The dispositor of Rahu or Ketu is also not to be over looked. For example, if the 1 st cusp sub lord is Rahu who is posited in the sign leo. Here he may be first issue, as the dispositor of Ragu is sun. After we fix up the sub lord of the first cusp, we can easily adjust the birth time. Accordingly we can predict the issue status of your spouse also, from the esential. 7th cusp sub lord. GOOD LUCK - R.B.T. - 56 On 22nd Decemberl 985 my neighbour enfeterd my room and placed a horoscope of his daughter who was in the family way had crossed the date indicated by the Doctor and wanted to know when she will deliver a child .As the horoscope presented by him did not contain planetary degrees and cusps, which ephemeries and what Ayanamsa was followed, I did not wish to go wrong by judging on that basis. I remembered our Day-S unday Lagna Sign Lagna lord Moon sign Moon sign lord Star Star lord Day lord Sun Capricorn Saturn Aries Mars Aswini Ketu The moon sign at birth being Sagittarius, Rahu a strong node transiting in the fifth and Mars transiting in the 11 th clearly signified the query in the consultant’s mind. The thing that occurred to me was that Jupiter'was in Moon’s star till 24th December 1985 and then only he transits in Sun’s star. Sun as lord of 9th is a bhagyathipathi and also a significator. So I first declared the till Jupiter changes the constellation transited by him, it is not likely to -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 57 materialise. Singature the event was to take place within a few days as per the teachings of our late Guruji I took into account Moon’s transit. The significators caters being Saturn, Mars, ketu and Sun I looked into K.P Ephemeries as to when Moon will transit Sun star Saturn sub. This was approx. 5-30 a m, on 25th December 1985. Our Guruji has stressed that a rode gives the result of the planet with which its conjoined. Here Ketu was conjoined with Mars which was a significator of the event per ruling planets, Moreover Moon will transit Taurus which sign Saturn the occurs. I thererfore predicted that on the midnight of 24th she will be' taken to the Hospital and delivery will take place before sunrise on 25th morning. When neighbour contacted the doctor in the Maternity Hospital with this prediction the doctor is reported to have said that according to “Medical Science” delivery will not take place for another eight days. On the night of 24th at about 11-45 p.m. the lady was admitted in the Maternity Hospital and she delivered a male child on 25th morning at 5-45 a.m. and I was congratulated for my scientific prediction. I owe the credit to our late Guruji K.S.Krishnamurti for enlightening us on how to make use of Ruling Planets and further forgiving us the Krishnamurti Ayanamsa according to which this prediction, was made and came out correctly. GOOD LUCK - R.B.T. - 58 ASCENDANT &amp; ASSESSMENT OF TIME OF ‘ BIRTH IS VERY EASY IN K.P. Suppose one has doubt in his mind about several points”, says Mr.N.D. Kedari B. E. (Civil), “such as, the exact degree and sign or Lagna, Longevity...always the,first important question is answered by the Ruling Planets at the moment of Judgment.” (ref: A &amp; A. 4/70-25). Mr. Kedari has very carefully followed the teachings of our Gurujee. In fact a consultant of mine had doubts in regard to the correctness of his Lagna and consequently, of the exact time of birth. He wanted a solution. Details furnised by him are as urtder (a) Date of birth 28.11.1945,Wednesday (b) Time of birth between 4 p.m. and Sun set and c) Place of birth on 87.36 East/22:39 North. Nirayana Lagna rising at 5/30 p.m. on 28.11.1945 is Taurus 22.53 i.e. Venus sign, Moon star and Sun sub. “According to the K.P.”, says Mr. Kedari “the Ruling Plants at the moment of query are the significators of the matter to be judged, confimed or ascertained". The Ruling Planets at Cuttack (place of judgment) on 4 4 1975 at 13.05 hrs. were Lagna - Cancer 12.54 -Sign : r r d Moon. Star Lord Saturn and sub lord Rahu. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 59 Moon in Sagittarius 29.26 i.e. in Jupiter’s sign, Sun star and Rahu sub. Day lord for Friday is Venus. Therefore the Ruling Planets are: Lagna Star lord - Saturn Sign lord - Moon Moon Star lord - Sun Moon Sign lord - Jupiter Day lord - Venus It may be noted here that Rahu is the sub lord of both the ascendant and of the Moon. Thus Rahu is a strong significator here.These apart, Saturn is in Rahu star. Moon Sub (Ref: Transit of planets in April in Astrology &amp; Athrishta). Therefore the Nirayana Lagna rising at birth must be (a) in Venus sign - Taurus (b) in the constellation: of Rohini of Moon and in (c) Rahu Sub i.e. Taurus 11.53.20 to 13.53.20. So far Saturn has not come into the picture although it is the strongest of the Ruling Planets being the Lagna Star lord. It is the sub sub lord of the Lagna whose longitude as such is from 12° 27’46,20" . - R.B.T. - 60 Something strange here. My correspondent writes to say that this very Ascendant was found by Mr. B.N. Nayak who is very well known to the readers of Astrology and Atheishta. Truth lies in K.P. The next point is to find out the time of the day when this point of the zodiac rose in the heavens for the sprcified place of birth. I have followed the lines of Mr. K.M. Subramaniam as outlined in his article in A&amp;A4/70-32. It works out to read 16-50 hours on 28-11-1945. A word here as to why I quote the K.P. enthusiasts instead of our Gurujee, well, Gumji loved us all. It would be a pleasure to him in his heavenly abode that we cooperate with one another. A familiar example may be taken, water belongs to the ocean from where it goes up in the form of vapour and again comes down to soothe the earth, help the crop and give to the ocean its wealth of pearls. Great glory to our Gurujee. May K.P. family expand. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 61 THE EFFECTIVE METHOD OF BIRTH TIME 3 RECTIFICATION The question is to rectify birth tfme and prepare the correct horoscope of the native. A concrete example is given here. The particulars given about a male native are the following: Date of Birth : 13th January .1939. Week Day : Friday Time of Birth : 9-00 A M. (1ST) Place of Birth : Bombay He is a Government official in a high post. The time given is obviously approximate. Further, if taken or assured to be accurate, it gives the ascendant near the end of Capricorn. Of course, after knowing the natives interest in researches, the traditional astrologer will not hesitate to exercise his licentious intuition and take the beginning of Aquarius as the rising point. The present question is whether there is a method by which one can arrive at a clear rectified ascendant through sheer calculations without having recourse to the so called power of intuition which is used in orthodox, astrology as a mere rationalizing bogey and as a ready source of excuse for vague and ambiguous predictions. The first test for any - R.B.T. - 62 theory to be scientific is that it is clearly verifiable and not that it is rigidly deterministic. If the study of astrology as dictated by facts and varified through scientific hypotheses is to be recommended, Krishnamurti Padhdhati must rate high among the existing theories in the subject. Rectification of birth-time is a crucial or even starting point in practical astrology. We shall apply Krishnamurti Padhdhati in the above Instance and see the extent to which it comes true. Of course, this is only illustrative but. the point is that it is sufficiently indicative and as such recommends the itself for an objective and impartial study. For the above particulars we must first find out the ruling planets of the native. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the ruling planets are the ones ruling the day, the Moon sign the Moon star, and the Ascendant sign. All these planets are the significators of major events in one’s life. If this is so, the ascendant point and the meridian, both of which are the most sensitive points in one’s horoscope, must also have significant operative connection with the ruling planets. This should particularly apply to the ascendant cusp which is supposed to constitute one’s personality which then determines the course of events for one to a great extent. This gives a clue to the problem of rectification of the time of birth. The problem mainly wolves the finding of the approximately acurate and fairly restricted are in the zodiac as the cusp of the ascendant. In a great majority of actual -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 63 cases the doubt does not apply to the ascertainment of the day, the Moon sign and the Moon star. We have to have a practical solution. Then, the planets ruling these three must be our guide in rectification. Let us apply this ruling to the above case. Venus rules the birthday as the date of birth falls on Friday. Venus again rules the sign which is Libra in the present case. Mars rules the Moon star, which is Chitra here. Saturn must rule the ascendant because 9-00 A.M. gives the end of Capricorn and the next sign. Aquarius is also ruled by Saturn. But one is standard here, not knowing what to do and which degree to take. Here is our Krishnamurtl Padhdhati starts operating in the real practical sense. What we have to do is to restrict and define an arch which must contain the rising point. The first step towards this is the determination of the ascendant star. Capricorn has Sun, Moon and Mars while Aquarius has Mars, Rahu and Jupiter to rule their stars. One’s choice is restricted to these five planets. From the available ruling planets that is, Venus, Mars and Saturn one must recur as the ascendant star. Since Rahu represents Venus and Kethu represents Mars by being in their signs Libra and Aries at the time of the birth Rahu and Kethu should also be taken.From Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu and Jupiter, that are available, we have to choose one pertaining to Venus, Mars, Saturn Rahu and Kethu. Sun, Moon, and Jupiter. -R.B.T.- 64 are obviously rejected Mars and Rahu remain. Rahu represents Venus which has .occurred twice among the ruling planets as the day lord and the sign lord. So let Mars be given a chance. This, also tallies with 9-OQ A M. for it is exactly around that time. So it is Mars. Then Ascendant ranges from 9-23-20 to 10-6-40. Still, the sign itself remains uncertain.The next step according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati is to select the sub through the same process of elimination and selection.All nine are available in this order Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Kethu Venus, Sun and Moon. Sun, Moon and Jupiter go out immediately for, obvious reasons. Venus has occurred twice as the day lord and the sign lord. So Venus also goes, and it goes along with Rahu, its representative. Mars has also occurred twice now as the Moon star lord and the ascendant star lord. It also goes with its representative Kethu. Saturn and Mercury remain. Saturn has occurred only once as the ascendant sign lord. Mercury appears quite a stronger. But one should be careful At the time of the birth saturn is in Mercury’s star Revathi. Lord of ascendant in Mercurys star is no in significant matter. But the decision seems to have become involved here. In matters of doubt the number will decide, according to the Padhdhati. I asked for a number which happens to be 69. It gives Mars’ sign and Mercury’s stae. This is amazing Mars star lordship is confirmed and in its - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 65 background or generally Mercury emerges. No doubt should remain. A method has to be judged by application and verification and not by airy theoretical faultfinding. Hypothesis should follow experience and not dictate it. So, Mercury’s sub in Mar’s star is to be taken. Then the span of the ascendant is restricted to 10-0° O’O” tol 0-1 °-53'-20”. The further step is Still minute. It is to decide the sub¬ sub. Then it is also time to see if any planet is in the ascendant according to this fairly restricted point of ascendant. Jupiter is in the first house. Take Jupiter as the sub-sub. Or, throw a number also (This has to be done in good faith and without prejudice either way-sceptical cynicism does not help the problem at all, and one has at least to verify a method which claims and promises actual results as it seems to be the case with the Krishnamurti Padhdhati). I throw number 25. It gives Mercury’s sign and Jupiter’s star. The extent of recurrence and verification is the practical and ready proof. Jupiter emerges now in Mercury’s generality or background. There is absolute clarity. Jupiter is certain as the sub-sub. This gives the further restriction. Now the ascendant’s span will be 10-1 °-20'-16/236 " to 10-1°-35'-231/3'. Accordingly, meridian’s span will be from about 7-10°-23'-486 to about 7-10 o -36'-8". This gives saturn’s star and Sun’s sub. With the ascendant in Mercury's sub the meridian ranges from 7-9°-18'-17” to-7-10 o -50'-49” with Saturn’s’star Venus’s - R.B.T. - sub changing to Saturn’s star Sun’s sub at 7-10°-20'-’0”. Hence the’ ascendant should be between 10-1°-20’-16- 2/3" and 10-1 °-35’-231/3 n and the merdian should be between 7-10°-23'-48' and7-10°-36'~8”. No more fineness needs to be pursued.The required Sidereal Time calculated backwards will be about 16 hours 5 minutes, accordingly. Birth time, similarly recalculated, will be about 16 A.M. (I.S.T.).This is fairly accurate and quite workable for the most of the astrological calculations.One may take the mean of the rectified range (about 10-1°-20’ to about 10-1°-35'), that is,10-1°-28' approximately. This may be useful in taking a fairly exact position for calculating the precise dasa balance. This way, this birth time would be about 9.16-35 A.M. (I.S.T.). The above confirms the native’s tendency towards research. Jupiter in Aquarius ascendant is sufficient for this. Again, the Government service is also confirmed by the meridian being in the Sun’s sub. All this acquired without recours to either a wishful ationalization or an intuitive exercise in retrospective “wisdom”. As already mentioned above the purpose of the above discussion is to recommend the Krishnamurti Padhdhati as one which is workable enough apparently to deserve - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 67 a series attempt at scientific verification. Apart from the point of being scientific objective and impartial, the first premise of the human civilization dictates that a normal human being shall not doubt the bonafides of another just as his statting point and without caring to verify it. Such an attitude smacks of cynicism which does not are to base itself on reason or even to offer an alternative. One must also guard against another extreme.One does not need astrology for fifty percent accuracy for which, broadly,the toss ota coin will suffice and common sense will even be more than sufficient. Then a lack of intellectuall adventurism is not conductive for great progress or starting discoveries. Let our judgment on Krishnamurti Padhdhati be based on same understanding. GOOD LUCK! RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH CHART BY KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI Whenever an Astrologer get a chart for any kind of astrological advice or prediction, the astrologer must first check up whether the horoscope given by the consultant is correct or reot. This can be done by the method of Rulling planets. Ruling Planets are five. They are: Lagna Lord, Lagna Star Lord, Moon Rasi .Lord, Moon Star Lord and Day Lord. At the time of checking or analysing the chart, if the ruling Planets are not agreeing, Any K.P. Astrologer can boldly reject by telling that the horoscope brought by the consultant is not correct. Time, date or place of birth may be wrong. K.P. Astrologer can set right horoscope by rectifing it througt the KP system. In my three decades experience as per the method found by our beloved Guruji Sri. K.S.Krishnamurti the rule is the sub or sub sublord of the ascendant of the Ruling Planet i.e., at the time if judgment by KP Astrologer will be the sub or subsub lord of ascedant of the birth time whose horoscope we are checking. I am herewith discussing a natal chart, whose time of birth I rectified. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - Mr.R. came to me with his Horoscope and requested me to give some astrological advice for his problems which he was facing. The details of his birth given by him are as follows. Name Mr.R Sex Male Date of Birth : 23-08-1945 Time of Birth : After sun rise before 9:00 am 1ST Place of Birth : Bangalore, Lat 1 2-58, Long 77-38 The Horoscope was prepared by an Astrologer was for the time 9.00 am in traditional method and I came to a conclusion that the horoscope is not useful as it not in KP system. I casted a KP chart for that day to look into the RP position and to judge the correctness of the given chart. It was taken up for judgement at 7:57am 1ST on 2-7 -2000 at Bangalore 77 -38E,12-58N using my KP. ayanamsafortheday23D51 M12S. The chart and RP are as follows : LAGNALORD : MON/RAH LAGNASTAR LORD : SAT/KET LAGNA SUB LORD : RAH LAGNA SUB SUB LORD : RAH MOON RASI LORD. ' : MER - R.B.T. - 70 MOON STAR LORD : JUP DAYLORD : SUN I casted the Horoscope of Mr.R for. 9;00 am 1ST and the chart is as follows: 9 11 12- 10: 13 18 II Sat 2 54 l&lt; Jup 6 31 : 11:14 27 29 111424 Mar 162329 Sn 163951 Mn 20 52 26 Vn272012 Me 23 2812 8 10 37 13 R.P. Chart Ra 1 3058 1.12 59 45 Kc 1 30 $8 7 12 59 45 3 10 37 13 6:14 24 5 14 27 29 4 13 18 11 3: 11 13 4 It was reported that he was born 9:00 am 1ST on 23-8-1945 at Bangalore 77 -38E, 12-58N. Using my KP ayanamsa for the day 23D 5M 16S, the chart is as follows The balance of Dasa at birth time and RP at judging time, I came for conclusion that the birth time given is wrong. My analysis is follows: MER the lagna of the native at 9:00 am given by him is very weak in RP of judging time though he is Moon rasi lord. He has appeared once and all the planets in Gemini make MER weak. I also noticed that 23-8- 945 is a WAR time period. From 1-9-1942 to 14-10-1945 all the clocks -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 71 were ahead of one hour. Since the native has mentioned after SUN rise he was born, I came to conclusion that he was born in LEO ascedant which will be from 6am to 8 am. If I deduct 1 hour from 9 am it will be 8 am. 7: 17 58 54 9 18 1 12 9:17 53 3 Mar 27 15 58 Rah 131857 10:171142 S« 277 29 Vn 28160 Mon 1 48 34 6 : 17 46 43 Rasi Chart 9: Am 1ST II : 17 3 22 5 : 17 3 22 Mct 2 139 Sun6 32 49 13 12:17 58 54 Kc 13 18 57 4: 17 II 42 3: 17 53 3 2. 18 8 121 6 29 P 22 2: 17 58 54 Applying the rule the subsublord at RP must be the subsublord at his birth time. I moved in the lagna LEO I fixed at 6.30 RAH. I casted the horoscope for 23-8-1945 at 6:30 Am 1ST. 8: 10 34 19 9 : 11 44 41 10: 12 24 36 Mar 27 12 0 11:1156 45 Rah 13 19 17 Sal 27 6 48 Vn 28844 IVIn 0 19 24 7 : 10 56 16 Rasi Chart 6.30 am 1ST Time Rectified 11 : 11 13 33 6 : 11 13 33 Mtr 2 4 25 Sun 6 26 a 1:115* 14 Ak Ke 13 19 17 5: .5 17 56 45 4: 12 24 36 . 3: 11 44 41 6 28 P 7 2: 10 34 19 - R.B.T. - 72 The balance of Dasa at Birth: Mars 3 years 3 months 29 days. The RP at his birth time 6:30 am is as follows (rectified) LAGNALORD : SUN LAGNASTARLORD : KET LAGNA SUB LORD : SAT LAGNASUBSUBLORD : RAH MOON RASI LORD : SAT MOON STAR LORD : MAR DAYLORD : JUP I compared the RP at birth time and RP at judgeing time and I came for a conclusion that the birth time must be 6:30 am 1ST (real time) and 7.30 am (war time) Whenever I take a chart for rectification of Birth I collect the informations about the past history of the events in life which happens once in life normally such as Date of Marriage, Children’s Birth date, and date of death of father or mother if available. I collected the above details. He had two marriages he gave all the details. The significators tables are as follows: SIGNIFICATORS TABLE 9.00 am BHAVA - SIGNIFYING PLANETS - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 73 I Mars II Ven III Mars Sun Moon Mer Ket IV Jup Ven Sat V Sat Moon VI Sat VII JupVen Sat VIII Mars Moon IX Ven Moon Mars Rah X Mer Ven Sat XI Moon Jup Sun Mer XII Sun Ven Sat Jup PLANETS SIGNIFYING BHAVAS SUN 12-11-3 MOON 11-5-3-8-9 MAR 3-8-9 MER 1-10-11-3 JUP 4-7-12-11 VEN 2-9-10-4-7-1 2 SAT 5-6-10-4-7-12 RAH 9,1-10-11-3-12 KET 3,4-7-12-11-1-10-5-6 RECTIFIED TIME SIGNIFICATORS TABLE : 6.30 AM 1ST BHAVA - SIGNIFYING PLANETS - R.B.T. - 74 I SunVenSatJup II Mer III Ven IV Mars Moon V Jup Sun Mer Ket Ven Sat VI Sat Moon VII : Sat VIII : Jup Ven Sat IX Mar Moon X Ven Moon Mar XI Moon Ven Sat Rah XII : Moon Jup Sun Mer PLANETS SIGNIFYING BHAVAS: SUN 1-12-5 MOON 12-6-4-9-10 MAR . 4-9-10 MER 2-11-12-5 JUP 5-8-1-12 VEN 3-1 0-11-1-5-8 SAT 6-7-11-1-5-8 RAH ‘ 11,2-12-5-1 KET 5,8-1-12-2-11-6-7 Let us analyse the past history. First let us check up about his marriage. He has informed that he had two marriages. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 75 9.00 am Chart Guruji Sri.K.S.Krishnamurti has clearly explained in Reader 4 about sublord must be MER and he has to signify a dual house for second marriage and also must signify 8th house. I am taking here the subsublord positions for more accuracy sake. 7th house subsublord is RAH, he is in the position of MER-RAH-MER-SUN and in 9th bhava, he is not signifying the 7th,8th house. As he had already two marriages the chart of 9.00 am in not correct. 6.30 am Chart - Rectified 7th house subsublord is MER, he is in the position if SUN-KET-VEN-JUP and KET is in JUP-KET-MER-SAT position. Ketu is in dual house and JUP owns 8th house and SAT owns 7th house, which shows that he had two marriages. This analysis shows that he was born at 6.30 am 1ST real time and 7.30 am wartime, which is also after SUN rise. I gave some important prediction based on rectified chart which I am not revealing here and my prediction cahie true with in a week time. As the article has become very lengthy I end this article and leave some exercise to KP students. - R.B.T. - 7 Excercise for KP students 1. Workout dasa bhukthi anthara periods in both charts of 9 am and 6.30 am 1ST. You will notice dasa bhukthi anthara will tally for his I &amp; II Marriages in 6.30 am chart. 2. Child birth, father, mother’s death can also be predicted taking 9th, 4th houses and their badaka and maraka houses and dasa tables. GOODLUCK - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 77 ON RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Numerous rules and cumbersome calculations are given in ancient text books for rectification of birth time. While we cannot dismiss all these principles as unworkable in practice we have to conclude that each method contradicts the other and finally the astrological student gets vexed when he gets different birth times using different methods. Krishnamurti Padhdhati on the other and serves, as a valid and practical method to determine the correct time of birth, when property applied. Much credit goes to the late Prof: K.S.K. for untiring efforts and laudable researches presenting before the public, his never failing system of prediction popularly known as Krishnamurti Padhdhati. What was possible to the ancient sages is equally possible to those of the present time who take, pains to do research of Prof. K.S.K. I shall now demonstrate with a practical example and explain the method of Birth Rectification as per K.P. for the benefit of new students of K.P. Birth rectification is done with the help of Ruling Planets which are - R.B.T. - 78 (1) Day lord at Judgment (2) Moon sign lord (3) Moon star lord (4) Lagna lord (5) Lagna star lord (6) Lagna sublord also Note: The day lord generally being a week rulling planet can well ignored for practical purposes. The planet which occupies the lagna or strongly aspects the lagna must also be taken into account and planet, will generally be the sub lord of lagna at birth. The lord of lagna at Judgement, if strong will be generally be the sub lord of lagna at birth. In the light of the above pinciples let us take as example. A native came to me saying that he was not sure of his birth time which was between 4 to 5 a.m. on 20-4-1939 (19th night 20th morning) at MADRAS. I took this case for analysis on 3-3-1977 at 7-37 a.m. (1ST) at Madras. The Ruling planets were: 1) Day-ruled by Jupiter 2) Star-ruled by Saturn. 3) Rasi (Cancer) ruled by Moon. 4) Lagna lord -Jupiter (9°32’29”) Pisces) -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 79 5) Lagna star lord-Satum 6) Lagna star lord-Venus So Jupiter, Saturn, Venus and Moon are ruling planets. Now, when we calculate the Ascendant between 4 and 5 a.m. on 19/20-4-1939 at Madras, we see that Pisces (Meena) rises as Ascendat. Jupiter is a strong ruling planet and hence .the lagna is fixed as Meena 330° to 360°. In Meena we have the stars of Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury (Poorvabhadrapada, Uthrabhadrapada and Revati). Jupiter happens to be the day lord and hence is rejected for the post of Lagna star lord. That leaves us only with good old Saturn to be considered as lagna starlord and we fix the lagna between 333°20’ and 346°40\ The map of the heavens at judgment was as follow: Lagna Venus Ketu J “""' Sun Mercury 3-3-1977 7-37 a.m. 1ST Madras Sani (R) Mars. Rahu Now, to elect the lagna sublord. Venus happens to be the lagna sublord at query and happens to be posited in the ascendant in exaltation.So Venus is to be considered as lagna sublord with the rule already given. ^ That leaves us with the Ascendant at birth between 8°06’40" and 10°2’ of pisces (Meena) Even within such a short range we have to find out the lagna sub-sub lord at birth. Now we are left only with Moon. But we cannot take it as the lagna sub-sub lord because: 1) It is in the star of Saturn who is retrograde. 2) It is not so strong as to assume the role of lagna sub¬ sub lord. Then who can be the lagna sub-sub lord? Mars aspects strongly the two planets, Moon and Saturn. It is also in the sign of Saturn in exaltation. Therefore Mars should be the lagna sub-sub lord at birth and the lagna is fixed as 8°49’ Pisces at Madras on 19/20-4-1939. This point will be on theAscendant at exactly 4.26.16 a.m. I.S.T. at Madras. [For Mathematical calculations Refer Horary Astrology- Sixth Reader] The rectified chart as per K.P. is reproduced below: - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - SaL 29-09 Mtr. 13-09 Lagna 8-49 lup. 2-34 Vn 0-21 Sun 6-04 Moon 9-17 It 12-55 ktlu 16-12 III 12-07 IV 8-21 XII 4-21 NIRAYANA 19/20-4-1939 4.26.16 a.m. 1ST MADRAS V 4-44 XI 4-44 VI 4-21 Mars. 22-46 X 8-21 IX 12-07 Rnhu 16-12 VIII 12- 55 VII 8-49 Balance of Ketu dasa: 2 yrs 1 month 16 days. A word of advice here. When Tables of Houses” used it is necessary to deduct the Ayanamsa given in this said Tables of Houses only. It is not enough if we rest content with mere rectification alone.The past events in life should fully tally along with transit also. Some of the events in the life of the above native are: 1) Marriage: 23-6-1961 at Madras. 2) Son born : 16-4-1962 at Madras. The above two events are taken as examples to prove the efficacy of the stellar system. - R.B.T. - 82 1) The marriage of the native took place on 23-6-1961 when he was running Sun dasa, Sun bhukthi and Mars Anthra as per Vimshothari system. ‘Significators of houses 2,7,11 are: Bhava Occupants Owners Planets in the star of occupants Planets in the star of owner 2 Ketu Mars Sun, Moon Nil 7 - Mercury - Saturn 11 - Saturn - Mercury It is clear that Sun is a strong significator of the second house along with Mars who happens to own it. Mars here becomes strong on account of its position in Saturn is sub, Saturn is a very strong significator of the 7th and 11 th houses. Thus Mars has got control over all the houses viz; 2,7 and 11 and therefore denotes the event as anthra lord. TRANSIT Sun, dasa and bhukthi lord, transited Gemini (Mi thuna) over Rahu star, Rahu sub. Gemini is ruled by Mercury who happens to be a strong significator of houses 7 and 11. Rahu is aspected by Sun and Moon both of them are strong,significators of the 2nd house. Hence transit also agrees.lt is significant that on 23-6-1961 Moon was .transiting, Virgo in Chitra star ruled by Mars, anthra lord. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 83 Mars, the anthra lord transited Leo (Simha) in Ketu’s star. The sign and star are ruled by strong significators. Hence transit also agrees completely. 2) Birth of a son occured on 16-4-62 when he was. running Sun dasa Mars bhukthi, Jupiter anthra. Sun has already been in addition to his lordship over the 2nd house. Jupiter, the bukthi, lord is puthrakaraka and aspects the 5th house also. It is in turn aspected by Mars lord of 2. TRANSIT The day was ruled by Moon, lord of 5. Moon was transiting the sign of dasanatha.Sun transited Mars' sign Aries (Mesha) in Ketu star. Mars is also the, bhukthinatha.Ketu is a strong signficator of 2nd house in addition to the fact that he deputises for Mars. Thus even here,the transit agrees in full. Like this all the events completly tally but I have not touched them here for want of space. The above discussion goes to demonstrate the truth of the practical utility of K.P. and the benefits it would confer if properly analysed and applied. “GOOD LUCK” - R.B.T. - 84 SRI MAHAGANAPATHAYE NAMAHA: RECTI. CHART OF BIRTH CHARTS AND. ROLE OF 7Ttf AND 11TH CUSPAL SUBLORDS IN MARRIED LIFE The rising sign on the eastern horizon at a place at the time of birth of a child is known as Ascendant. While erecting horoscopes, fixing the Ascendant assumes prime importance. For fixing the Ascendant accurately, the essential factor is the correct time of birth. Our learned authors have laid great stress on the correct time of birth before proceeding further to erect the horoscope and explore the significations of the house or Bhavas. They have evolved various methods to arrive at the correct time of birth and each method when applied gives different time of birth. In Krishnamurti Padhdhati rectification of birth time is carried out with the aid of “Ruling planets” and they are found to give correct results in fixing the exact time of birth of persons. Unless the time of birth is exactly fixed, the cuspal sublords can not be fixed correctly otherwise it will lead to erroneous predictions. “Ruling planet" is a great boon and contribution to Stellar Astrology by our respected Guruji Prof. K. S. Krishnamurti, the founder of Stellar Astrological Research Institute. - ASTRO SECRETS A K.P. - 85 Here I am giving below another novel method for verification of birth chart based on cuspal sublords taking into account the birth star (or) Janma nakshatra of Father mother and members in family. Horoscope No. 1 Horoscope of Mrs. Viiayalaksmi W/o. R. Velmuruga Doss bom on 23.2.1929 at 7.46 AM at a place Thiruvanthipuraim Cuddalore District. (11 ° 43’ North, 79° 45 E) Balance of Kethu Dass at birth 5y-10m-29D Vn 27.1-55 3.54-II II 7.58.39 13.07-57 Rahu 2.41.13 III 7.40-48 Mars 2.7.31 IV 4.40-48 Sun 11.13.40 XII 0.18-39 NIRAYANA BHAVA CHAKRAM (1) V 0.40-48 Mer 16.48-05 XI 0.40-48 VI 0 18 39 2.04-04 Sun 6.5.27 X 4.40-48 IX 7.40.48 Ke. 2.41-13 VUI 7.58-39 VII 3.54-11 Cusp Star Lord Sub Lord 1 . Saturn Saturn II. Kethu Jupiter III. Sun Kethu IV. Mars Venus V. Jupiter Mars VI. Kethu Kethu - R.B.T. - VII. Sun Saturn VIII. Rahu Rahu IX. Saturn Kethu X. Kethu Moon XI. Sun Rahu XII. Mars Mercury Planets Star Lord SubLord Sun. Rahu Saturn Moon Kethu Venus Mar,s Mars Kethu Mercury Moon Saturn Jupiter Kethu Mercury Venus Mercury. Jupiter Saturn Kethu Rahu Rahu Sun Jupiter Kethu Jupiter Rahu In the above chart, the birth star of the lady’s father is Poorattathi (star of Jupiter) and the birth star of her mother is Pooradam (star of Venus). It may be noted that the star lord and sub lord of IXth cusp and IVth cusp are related to each other as under. Cusp Star Lord Sub Lord X Saturn Kethu IV Mars Venus The IXth cusp sublord Kethu is in the sign of Jupiter. The IVth cusp sublord is Venus. It is to be noted that the birth stars of her parents have very good connection with cuspal position’ of IXth and IVth houses. In some cases, the star lord of the related cusp (or) the sublord of the related cusp may become as Rasi lord also. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 87 If the star lords of family members have no connection with their related cuspal position then it requires rectification of time of birth. Here it tallies with the connected Bhavas and needs no further rectification. Horoscope 2: Name: R. S. Velmuruga Doss (Husband of Smt. Vijayalakshmi Date of birth: 13.7.1922 Time of Birth : 10.04 PM Place of birth : 1 10 1 O' N, 790 1 9’ E Balance of Rahu Dasa at birth OY-9M-21 D II 28.50.28 Ke 10.45.14 III Rah 29.50.28 19.31.09 26 50.28 IV Mer7.10.56 V22.50.28 27.47.51 23.42.10 19.24.06 CHART NO.2 VI 20.50.28 XII 20.50.28 Ven 5.39.19 V1I23.42.40 XI 22.50.28 X 26.50.28 Mars (R) 18.31.26 IX 29.50.28 Sat 9.28.34 Ra 10.45.14 lup 18.18.20 VIII 28.50.28 Cusp. Star Lord Sub Lord. 1. Jupiter Saturn, II. Mercury Saturn III. Sun Rahu IV. Mars Jupiter V. Jupiter Saturn VI. Mercury * Venus VII. Venus Saturn - R.B.T. - VIII. Mars Saturn IX. Jupiter Moon X. Mercury Jupiter XI. Venus Saturn XII. Moon Venus Planet Star Lord Sub Lord Sun Jupiter Venus Moon Rahu Mars Mars Mercury Mercury Mercury Rahu Rahu Jupiter Moon Mercury Venus Kethu Rahu Saturn Sun Venus Rahu Moon Moon Kethu Saturn Sun The birth star of this gentleman’s father is Thiruvonam (star lord Moon). In this chart the IXth cuspal sublord is Moon and the star lord of IXth cusp Jupiter is in the star of Moon i.e. Hastha Nakshatra. Hence casting the horoscope cast is correct and there is no need for rectification of his and birth particulars of mother are not available. The lagna cuspal star lord and sub lord of this native in Jupiter and Saturn respectively. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - He is a man of principle and health care. He is also a man of strict disciplinarish and scholar in K.P. Astrology. The Lagna cuspal star lord and sub lord is Jupiter and Saturn respectively and they denotes the characteristics of the person as stated above. The lagna cuspal sub lord can also be used for rectification of birth time. Role of 7th Cuspal Sub-lord In the horoscope No. 1 &amp; 2, note the Vllth cuspal position. Cusp Star lord Sub lord Chart No. 1 VII Sun Saturn Chart No. 2 VII Venus Saturn In chart No. 1 the 7th cuspal sublord is Saturn. It is in the star of Kethu and in the sub of Rahu. In her husband’s birth chart the birth star is ‘Sathayam’ in Kumba Rasi. In the chart No. 2 the sublord of cusp is Saturn, which is in the star of sub and in the sub of Venus. The sublord of 7th cusp Saturn in the star of Sun denotes the birth Rasi of this lady and the same Saturn aspects Ketu the star lord of the lady’s birth star (Maham) While matching for marriage the birth charts according to the standard text “Kalaprakasika” Kumba Rasi and Simha Rasi, Kataka Rasi and Makara Rasi should not be matched - R.B.T. - 90 sven though they are Samaaptakam, presumably as both Saturn an Sun are considered as enemies. The above formula of Kalaprakasika is to be modified Dased on Research as the nativities of example horoscopes are leading a happy and long wedded life even today. In the horoscopes, the 7th Bhava denotes legal bondage Df marriage and the 11 th Bhava denotes everlasting riendship. In the above given example horoscopes, the 7th cusp sub lord of the lady viz Saturn is the sub lord of the 7th :usp of the gentleman. Similarly the Xlth cusp sublord of the lady is Rahu which is conjoined with Saturn, the 11 th cuspal sublord of the gentleman’s chart. Therefore, it would appear that while matching horoscopes we may do so based on the sublords of the 7th and 11th cusp and significators of the 7th and 11 th Bhavas also. K.R followers are requested to experiment on the above lines. With Pranams to Guruji OM TAT SAT -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 91 BIRTH RECTIFICATION In the predictive world of astrology, no system is as perfect and accurate as advanced stellar system of Krishnamurti Padhdhathi named after late Prof. K.S.K’s prediction should be analyzed from Bhava / cusp position and not from sign to sign, a zodiac sign signifies the qualities, elements,gender etc. whereas the cusp / house represents the present environments like education, profession, marriage etc. Students following K.P. also find it very dfficult to select bukthi’s for a particular event. Many do not evince keen interest in correcting the given time since the sub theory is very scientific and methodical. Sometimes 5 to 10 minutes error in the recorded birth time is likely to alter the sub in the lagna and other cusps. A KP follower should read the chart after correcting the birth time. Some days back one lady approached me for the consultation for her daughter. Whenever we get chart casted according to traditional principle I request K.P. followers to rectify the time with application of RP’s. So the birth time has been corrected to 16.27.29 I.S.T. born on 20.06.1989. The method employed is briefly discussed below for K.P. followers. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 92 How to arrive at the correct position of lagna. According to the details furnished by the lady is D.O.B. is 20.06.1 980 at 16-351ST at Bangalore. The correct position of ascendant should be fixed by means of ruling Planets. The chart was taken for the calculation 8-8-80 at 14.041ST in Bangalore 12-58' N / 77 -36’E longitude. Ruling Planets: Lagna lord - Mars At 14-04 on Lagna star - Sat 08/08/00 Moon sign lord - Mars Moon star lord - Saturn Day lord - Mars. The order of preference in the RP is as follows. Mars, Saturn. Ruling Planets of the native born on 20.06.80 is Scorpio at 6-25-37 in sub of Mercury i.e. Mars sign / Saturn star / Mercury. If we compare RP’s at birth and at the time of rectification, Mars and Saturn appeared and Mercury has not appeared as RP on 8-8-80. So I took Saturn a strong RP as sub lord and Mars as sub-Sub-lord. Therefore correct position of lagna at the time of birth should be Mars sign / Saturn star / Saturn, sub / Mars sub-sub. - R.B.T. - 93 This position works to be 4-48 of Nirayana Scorpio or 214-48'. Add K.S.K. Ayanamsa.for the year 1980. Now Sayana position works to be 214-48+23-29=(238-17 -25) ..(I) Now refer U.T.Q.H or table of houses and record the following Sidereal time Rising position of ascendant lOH-OOmts 237.33.13.(II) 10H-04 mts 238.28.04.(Ill) for 4' of sidereal time, the cusp move 00-54-51 .(Ill-ll) the required position of ascendant is obtained by for 4' the cusp move 00-54' -51" of arc X 00-44'-12" of arc Note : 00-44’12" = (238-17'-25"-237-33’13") X=00-44’-12" *4700-54'-41 “=2652”8240/3291”= 193secs=03m-13sec....(IV) Add the value of X i.e. 3 m-1 3 sec to step II of sidereal time. (10H-O0m+O0-3m-1 3sec)= 10 H-03m-13 Sec....(V). This value is the required sidereal time of birth. Now the sidereal time at 05.30 a.m. on 20.06.1980 is 23H-23m-26sec.(VI) - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 94 Hours minutes seconds Calculated 10 03 13 sidereal time (step V) Add 24 hrs 24 00 00 34 03 13 Deduct the value of sidereal time at05.30 a.m. on 20.06.1 980 23 23 26 10 39 47 less correction 10 seconds/hour 1 46 10 38 01 Add 5 30 (05.30 a.m.) 16 08 01 The above arrived value .i.e. 16th 08m-0 1 sec is the L.M T. of birth at Bangalore add 19m - 28 sec to the above value to ger 1ST at birth. Therefore 1 6H-27m-29sec is the required time of birth. If we work in the reverse process that by taking time of birth we should get the value of 10H-03m-1 3sec.(the required sidereal time at birth) - R.B.T. - 95 Reverse Process: 16th-27m -29 sec. -19m-28sec. 16h-08m-01 sec 05h-30m _ 10h-38m-01 sec 01m-46 sec 10h-39m-47 sec ISt (-) LMT correction decuct (05.30 a.m.) increase of 10 sec/h add value of sidereal time at 05.30.a.m. on 20.06.80. 23h-23m-26 sec 34h-03m-13 sec less 24 hrs 24h 10h-03-13 sec.... is the sidereal at birth (at 16h-27m- 29 sec) I can give hundreds of examples like this. But this is sufficient to understand the birth rectification priciple. I humbly request the student or K.P. followers to through more light on this method &amp; for verification of gender of the child apply the method given in uttara kalamritha. With great respect to our Guruji late prof. K.S.Krishnamurti, I conclude this article. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - % SHREE GANESHA NAMAHA RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Unless the time of birth is correct, the cuspal sublord cannot be calculated correctly which will lead to erroneous predictions and this will make the object of astrology meaningless as well as useless. Our learned sages have invented various methods to arrive at the correct time of birth, when it is not correctly known. Out of them one is KP. most scientific method. Our beloved Guruji Late Prof.K.S.Krishnamurthi evolved KP. System and the Ruling Planet method for the correction of birth time and giving perfect prediction to any chart. K.P. is more developed in cormparision to traditional astrology. Now, we come to the real case study. One of my consultant cameto me,who had doubt about the time of his birth which was of aboutl 2 p.m. to 9th July 1956 at Patna as recorded. The analysis of the birth correction has been made with the blessing of our Guruji Late Prof. K.S.Krishnamurti and also the blessing and proper guidance of my respected Guruii Joytish Samrat Dr. B.K. Singh. For correction of birth time the Ruling has been taken on10.7.2001 to at 1.50 p.m. I.S.T. at Gaya, Lat24 48' N’ as follows - R.B.T. - 97 1. Ascendant in scorpio 20°42' lord - Mars. 2. Ascendant starlord - Mercury 3. Moon signlord - Saturn 4. Moon star lord - Rahu 5. Daylord - Mars Mercury was taken as signlord because in chart given, Virgo was rising .Mars has appeared twice as ruling planet and it is signlord of Ascendant So it was taken as starlord. Now come to Rahu which is starlord of Moon. So Rahu was taken as sublord. And lastly saturn as sub-sublord. This combination is available between 24° 06’40" to 26° 06’40" in Virgo. So Ascendant came at 24°44”in Virgo. Add : Ayanamsa for the yearl 956 5 24 44 23 09 6 17 53 At sayana Lagna the sidereal time is 7 Deduct sidereal time at ephemeries at 19 17 5.30 am. on 9.7.1956 0 37 37 6 41 40 Deduct correction @ 10 sec./hr. 1 07 6 40 33 Deduct correction for 85°12’E 10 40 6 29 53 Adding 5 hrs and 30 min, to the Calculated time to arrive at Birth time 5 30 00 11 59 53 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 98 As birth time came at 11 hrs 59 minutes 53 seconds showing that the recorded time was cast using calculated time and was checked, for the marriage and service of the VII 24-44’ VII 23-08’ VII 24-08- Ven29"47 Ke 12-52’ X 25-08* Sun23"5t' Mcrll-41' VI 27-08’ 24-0 r Date of birth: 9.7.1956 Time of birth Patna 53 Sec. Place of birth Patna K.P.Ayanamsa23°9' Saturn 10 Y4M15 days XI 27-08’ Mn 9“23’ I ra 8-29’ V 27-08' XII 27-08’ Jup7"7’ IV 25-08- 111 24-08’ Sat 3*24’ Ra 12-52- II 23-08- Nep 1 24-44- Cuspal positions Cusp Starlord Sublord 1 Mars Rahu II Jupiter Saturn III Mercury Mars IV Venus Mercury V Mars Jupitor VI Jupiter Venus VII Mercury Rahu VIII Venus Saturn IX Mars Mars X Jupiter Mercury XI Mercury Jupiter XII Sun Sun - R.B.T. - 99 Planet Details Planet Starlord Sublord Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Ketu Jupiter Saturn Jupiter Rahu Ketu Mars Saturn Saturn Moon Saturn Venus Mercury Saturn Rahu Saturn Saturn Mars Rahu The marriage of the rative will take place when the combined period of the significators of the planet of 2,7, 11 houses will be running. The marriage took place on 26.11.92 when the Native was running Major and Sub period of Venus and Sub- Sub of Jupiter. Venus is significator of II houses, which denotes the addition of family member. Hence a significator for marriage. Jupiter is owner of the 7th and occupant of 11th hence good significator for marriage. The Native entered into job in state government on 2.1 2.1992. At that time major and bhukti of Venus Jupiter Anthara 2nd Moon Shookshama was running signifying the house 2,6,10,11. It is K.P. which can only solve such type of problem. With Pranam to ourbeloved Guruji late Prof. K.S.Krishnamurti. Good Luck - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 100 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME BY THE APPLICATION OF “KR1SHNAMURTIPADHDHATI” When intelligently applied, “Krishnamurtr Padhdhati” gives marvellous accuracy in the rectification of birth time or lagna cusp. The method is simple, time-saving,and gives sure results. Doubts are relegated to the limbo of oblivion. No other to the pre-natal epoch method, primary or secondary directions of Western Astrology and some others suggested in the traditional Hindu astrology can even come very near to this method. Most of these methods give contradictory results and make confusion worse confounded. Why? K.P. gives reliable results when correctly applied. Genuine urge for the correct results must be there, in the mind of the person asking the question. Then only 100% accuracy can be guaranteed The following gives the results of actual rectification of three horoscopes of three living persons: I. Male born on 20-7-1911 at 5.54. p.m. I.S.T. Place : Tellicherry (Kerala) Star :Bharani Date : Thursday. Question What is the sub of my lagna in Dhanur Rasi? There is a doubt with regard to the birth time. It L.M.T. or I.S.T., although it is written as I.S.T. The difference between the two is 28 minuts. Of course, there is no doubt with - R.B.T. - 101 regard to Dhanur Rasi, as the rising lagna. Time-6-33 p.m. I.S.T. on 17-5-1968 (Friday) Place-Chottamkara (Kerala). Ruling planets at the moment: Friday - Sukra Rasi rising at Question Time Scorpio 30 38' Star transmitted by Moon Thiruvonam Moon Rasi Lord Star rising in the East Anusham - Kuja(Lord of Sign) Lord Moon Sani Sani On this day Sani is with Rahu in Meena Rasi. Sani aspects Mars with special aspect (3rd aspect) unilaterally. So,Mars is under the control of Sani. Rahu being a node is stronger, and represents Sani. So, Sukra, (Kuja &amp; Sani) &amp; Moon RAHU must influence the lagna point of the person in some way or other The degree of lagna cusp given Ruling planets at in the horoscope 19° 50' Dhanur Question Time So, Day Sukra Sukra (Star lord) Rahu (Kuja, Sani &amp; Sani) Rahu (Sub lord) (Lagna lord) (Star lord) {&amp; Rasi lord) Moon • (Sub-sub lord) Moon (Star lord) -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 102 So, the time recorded is quite correct as the influencing planets are practically identical. Guru is not in the picture, as there is absolutely no doubt about Dhanur lagna. So now it is quite clear that K.P. must be applied in a dexterous manner to hit at the correct results. II. Female born on 5-11-1917at6-49A.M.-L.M.T. Place: Manjeri (Kerala),Day-Monday Star: Punarvasu What is the correct position of my lagna? Can it be Thula Rasi, last quarter or Scorpio Rasi, first quarter ? Question time :11A.M. I.S.T. on 21-5-1968 Tuesday-Chottanikkara (Kerala) Ruling planets at the moment of judgment. Tuesday - Mars Poorattathi - Guru. Kumba Rasi - Sani Lagna rising at the time 16°10’Cancer - Moon Star rising in the East - Pushya-Sani As Sukra is not in the picture, reject Thula Rasi for the lagna. Birth can be in Scorpio Rasi only. The cusp can fall in Guru star, Rahu sub (as Rahu today is posite in Meena Rasi with Sani) and Moon sub-sub. 3°3’-3°13’ in Scorpio Rasi is the correct lagna position. There is a slight difference of some minutes in birth time-about 5 to 6 minutes. So see how KP works accurately and gives sure results. - R.B.T. - 103 III. Question of Sri K.R.Viswanathan, M.A., Professor of Botany, Kerala Varma College, Trichur. I was born on 20/21-8-1931 in Trichur at about 5 A.M. I.S.T. Anusham. There are two opinions regarding any birth time. According to one version, it is 4-48 to 4-50 A.M. I.S.T. According to another version, it sure. Let me see how your “Krishnamurti Padhdhatti” will help in fixing the correct position of my lagna in Kataka Rasi. Time-11.56A.M. I.S.T. Place-Trichur Planets rulling at the moment of judgement: 5-5-1968-Sunday - Lord Sun Lagna rising at the moment 13°10’ - Katakam - Moon Star rising in the East Pushya - Lord Sani Moon transits Pushya star - Lord Sani Moon transits Katakam - Lord Moon On this day Sani aspects Mars unilaterally by the 3rd aspect. So, Sani, Sun, Moon and Mars (indirectly) can influence the lagna point. So lagna position is Sani star, Mars sub and Sun subsub. 12°47' in Cancer. As Budha is not in the picture, the other time 5-50 A.M. can be rejected straightaway. The correct time is 4-48 A.M. I.S.T. The lagna can be also in the Sani star, Rahu sub and Rahu sub sub. But as the former time is nearer the indicated time, it has been taken. Moreover, Sun also must find a place, you see. So, we see-, how valuable K.P. is in the rectification of birth time. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 104 CORRECT TIME OF BIRTH Mr. D.E. Madhav Rao, from Mangalore desires to know the correct time of birth of his friend. He wrote to me that his friend was born at about 4 A M. (1ST) on 4 June 1934 at Mangalore (12°N 53’, 74°E 50). He further mentions that “there may be a variation of about 5-8 minutes between the time of actual birth and the time as noted by his parents (3A.M.) Varaha Mihira in his Brihit Jataka has devoted one full chapter to cast the horoscope of a person whose birth time is not known. He gives the method to erect such horoscope from the time of judgment. From this we can understand that the time of birth and the urge to erect the horoscope of a native has a direct bearing. They are interlinked. Prof. K.S.K. also advocates this method. According to him, note the ruling planets at the time of judgment of erection of the horoscope. I took this for judgment at 9-16 A.M. on Sunday the 20th of May, 1968 at Delhi. This moment is ruled by (i) Sun - Lord of the day Sunday (ii) Mars - Lord of Moon sign, Aries. (iii) Sun - Lord of the Constellation, Krithika. (iv) Moon - Lord of Lagna Cancer, and finally (v) Saturn - Lord of Star Pushyami. rising in the East at that moment. - R.B.T. - 105 So the ruling planets are Sun, Mars, Moon and Saturn. The position of the zodiac, that would have risen in the East on 3/4th June, 1934. at 3 A.M. (1ST) at the place of birth is as Hr. Mts. Secs. (i) Sidereal time at noon on 3-6-1934 at the place of birth 4 44 11 (ii) Add interval between the previous noon and the time of birth in L.M.T. (3 A.M. I.S.T.) 14 29 20 (iii) Add correction for interval at the rate of lOsecs./hour 0 2 25 Therefore sidereal time at the place of birth at 3A.M. I.S.T. 19 15 56 Therefore according to Rapheal’s Table of Houses (13oN), the Sayana Position of the Ascendant is 22°44Aries. Ayanamsa for 1934 is 22° 50’. Therefore according to Nirayana system, 29° 54’ Pisces was rising in the East at 3 A M. (1ST) at the place of birth. Pisces is ruled by Jupiter. Jupiter is not a rulling planet. The next sign that immediately rises is Aries. Mars rules - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 106 this sign. Mars is a ruling planet. Further the Ascendant Aries will rise very shortly after 3A.M. and the time of birth is also very near to 3 A M. so it can be safely concluded that the Ascendant for this horoscope is Aries and not Pisces, or the birth is after 3 A.M. (I.S.T.) Which Constellation As the actual time of birth is very close to 3 A.M. so naturally we will select the star Aswini, in the sign Aries to rise in the East. Aswini is ruled by Kethu. No doubt Kethu is not ruling planet, but it has got important connection with the ruling planets, because. (i) it is aspected by Saturn, the ruling planet. (ii) it is in the star of Moon and subs of Sun, and both Moon and Sun rule the moment of judgment. Thus we can safely conclude that birth occured when Aries sign and Aswini star was rising in the east. Which Sub The first sub is ruled by ketu itself, and the next by Venus. Here I may mention that I received the letter on Saturday i.e., 5-5-1968, and a Bharani star day. I could not judge the horoscope on the same day, as I had my pre¬ engagements with my friend Harder Singh, from whose residence I could return to my house only in the morning on Sunday. So sub of Venus, in Aswini star cannot be - R.B.T. - 107 taken. We will take the subs of Sun, as the Sun is a strong rulling planet (both day and star are governed by Sun). Thus if you refer to page 161 of K.P, Volume 1, you will see that the sub of Sun, in Star Aswini, ranges from 3° Aries to 3° 40'Aries. Take the sub sub of Moon, and so the lagna for the native should be between 3°3’Aries to 3°5’ Aries, or say the lagna is 3°4’Aries If 3°4’ is the Nirayana Position, the Sayana Position will be 25°54’Aries, Ayanamsa being 22°50’. At the birth place, at the Sidereal time 19 hrs, 26 mts. 34 secs. 25°54’Aries (Sayana) or 3°4’Aries (Nirayana) will rise in the east. On 3-6-1934, Sidereal Hr. Mts. Sece. Time at Noon Sidereal Time, at the 4 44 11 Time of Birth Interval between previous • 19 26 34 noon, and the time of 1 (19 26 34) obtained, plus the correction! (4 44 11) at 10 seconds/hour. 14 42 23 If we deduct rectification for this interval at 10 seconds per hour, we will get the figure of 14 hrs. 40 mts. as the interval between previous nopn and the birth time in L,M,T, Thus the birth occured at 2-40 A.M. (L.M.T.) Longitude of the place is 74°E 50’. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 108 Difference between Standard Time and Local Mean Time is (82°30’) - 74°50’) x 4=30 mts-40 secs. So the birth in standard time was at 3 hrs. 10 mts. 40 secs. A.M. or approximately 3-11 A M. (I.S.T.) on 4-6- 1934. This discovery of ruling planets , by Sri. K.S.K. is a boon to the Students of Astrology. There are other methods also for birth rectification, but none comes to the standard. The method advocated by Sri. K.S.K. is the best, accurate and convincing. VALIDITY OF KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI It is an established fact that Krishnamurti Padhdhati is more predictive than the traditional technique in Astrology. There are various dasa systems for timing of events Vimshottari dasa system is followed in South India and Astottari Dasa System is followed in North India, especially in Bengal. Articles dealing with Kalachakra Dasa arid Astottari horoscope Dasa by Sri. M. G. Gopalan Nayar and Lagna Dasa by Sri. B.N. Nayak were published in October 1977, December 1977 and June 1978 Issues of this Magazine. These two Krishna murti Padhdhati scholars have shown that Krishnamurti Padhdhati can be universally applied to all the Dasa Systems. In the above articles Sri.Nayar has taken the event of death of a young woman of 20 years in his article on Kalachakra Dasa while the event of marriage is taken by him in his article on Astottari Dasa System. Sri. Nayak has discussed about the death of a doctor’s wife. Sri. Nayar states that Astottari gives accurate results for a birth falling in Sukla Paksha and the Kalachakra Dasa gives accurate results if the Moon at birth is associated with, or aspected by, the lord of the Dasa at birth as per Kalachakra Dasa System. -ASTRO SECRETS ■&amp; K.P. - 110 Now I take a single natal chart which is suitable to both Astottari and Kalachakra Dasa Systems and prove the Universal applicability of Krishnamurti Padhdhati by applying it to Astottari, Kalachakra and Lagna Dasa Systems taking two events namely the native’s marriage and the birth of his daughter. Birth Details : Male born on Monday 3-3-1947 at 5.24 p.m. 1ST at Chatrapur (Orisa) which is situated on 19°-21 ’ N Lat (10°-14’ geocentric latitude) and 84°-03' Longitude. I took the help of Krishnamurti Sayana Ephemeris to determine the planetary positions and Krishnamurti Padhdhati Ayanamsa 23°-01' for the year 1947 is used to cast the The cusps houses were inter, polation for the Geocentric latitude of the place, viz., 19°-14’N. VIII 9“54‘ IX 10-54' X 11-54’ Ra 13-53' XI I2”8' Merc.(R) 29" r Sun 19-3’ VII 11-33- Mars 6”3' 0 1*7'23' Sal (R) 9"48' XII 11*55' VI ll"55’ Yen 5”1’ I, II 11-33' V 12-8' kctu I3"53' l\ 1154- III 10-54' II 9-54' .Iup4'22' - R.B.T. - 111 Planet Star Sub Sun Rahu Moon Moon Jupiter Moon Mars Mars Moon Mercury Jupiter Sun Jupiter Saturn Saturn Venus Sun Saturn Saturn Saturn Venus Rahu Moon Rahu Kethu Saturn Rahu Cusp Star Sub 1 Venus Mercury II Sun Venus III Rahu Saturn IV Saturn Moon V Ketu Mercury VI Moon Rahu VII Rahu Saturn VIII Saturn Venus IX Ketu Saturn X Moon Rahu XI Rahu Saturn XII Saturn Moon Is the horoscope a correct one? - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 112 Here the sub lord of the Ascendant is Mercury who is in the star of Jupiter and sub of Sun Jupiter is aspecting Moon. The native is born in the 4th quarter of Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter in the sign Cancer (Kataka) ruled by Moon. The native’s wife is born in the star Uthrabhadra ruled by Saturn in the sign Pisces ownd by Jupiter. The sub lord of the 7th cusp is Saturn in its own star and sub of Venus sub. Jupiter is aspecting Saturn. The native's mother is born in the star Poorvashada ruled by Venus in the sign owned by Jupiter. The sub lord of the 9th cusp is Saturn who is deposited in its own star and Venus sub. Jupitens aspecting Saturn. The native’s wife is born in the star Barani owned by Venus falling in the sign Aries (Mesha) ruled by Mars. The sub lord of the 4th cusp is Moon who is in the star of Jupiter and in own sub. Moon is aspecting Venus. Jupiter is associated with Kethu who represents Mars by sign. The native’s daughter is born in the star Sravana owned by Moon in the sign Capricorn (Makara) owned by Saturn. The sub lord of the 5th cusp is Mercury who is deposited in the star of Jupiter and sub of Sun. Jupiter is aspecting both Moon and Saturn. Thus it is clear that the horoscope is correct. The person, Mr. Nagoji Rao, is my son’s co-son-in-law. He is an Engineer. His marriage took place on Friday 11-5-1959 - R.B.T. - 113 at around 10 a.m. His daughter is born on Thursday, 10-4-1980, at 6-15 a.m. We generally judge the houses 2,7 and 11 of a nativity for marriage.The same houses for the would-be life partner (wife/husband) are 8,1,5, of the native. When we consider 2, 7 and 11 as essential houses for a person’s marriage the same houses for the life partner counted from the 7th house should equally be treated as essential. Thus the Ascendant of a nativity should, not be treated as a negation of the 2nd house particularly in the case of first marriage. This is my humble submission. I. Application on Krishnamurti Padhdhati to Vimshottari Dasa System : A) Marriage This is what all of us are regulary following. a) The sublord of, the 7th cusp is Saturn who is lord of 7, is deposited in own star and sub of Venus, Karaka for marriage. Saturn is also aspected by Venus and Jupiter lord of 5 and 8 (11 and 2 of wife). So marriage is promised to the person. b) Moon is in applying conjunction with Saturn in 11 constituting what is called marriage Punarphoo, i.e., it causes delay in marriage. The native’s marriage took place when he was 33 years of age, surely a late marriage. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 114 c) Since Saturn is the sub lord of the 7th cusp, the age difference between, the husband and wife should be more toan normal. Actually the age difference between the husband and wife is 11 years and 8 months (His wife is born on 22-11-1958). d) The sub lord of the 7th cusp is Saturn who is in the 11th house, Friends and relatives are indicated by the 11th house. The native married his sister’s daughter. According toVimshottari Dasa System, the balance of Jupiter Dasa at birth is 3 y-7m-25d. The native’s marriage took place on 11-5-1979 which falls in the Dasa of Mercury and bhukthi, anthra and sookshama of Rahu. The Dasa Lord Mercury is lord of 2,11 and 7 in the star of Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 (11/2 of wife) and sub of Sun, lord of Ascendant (7 of wife) in 7. And Mercury has no planets in its stars or Sub. The bhukthi, anthra and sookshama lord, Rahu, represents Jupiter and Mars by aspect,Moon by star and Venus by sign. Jupiter is lord of 5/8 (11/2 of wife) in the star and sub of Saturn, lord of 7 in 11. Mars in 6 in own star is detrimental, but Mars is in the sub of Moon in 11 and is aspecting Ascendant (7 ofwife)and2.AsMoon is in 11, Rahu is a significator of 11. Moon is in the star of Jupiter and in own sub. Venus is the karaka planet for marriage in - R.B.T. - 115 5 (11 of wife) in the star of Sun, lord of Ascendant (7 of wife) in 7, and sub of Saturn, lord of 7 in 11. Thus Mercury and Rahu and lords of the Dasa, Bhukthi etc., rightly brought about the native’s marriage. Transit at the time of marriage at 10 a.m. on 11-5-1979 is as follows :-The Sun is in Aries (Mesha) Venus star and Kethu sub (in the horoscope Kethu is in the star of Saturn and so is a significator of 7 and 11. Also Kethu represents Jupiter and Mars). The Moon is in the star Swathi’ ruled by the Bhukthi, Anthra and sookshama lord Rahu and sub of Venus. Mercury (Dasa lord and lord of houses 2/11) is in the star of Kethu in Aries (Mesha) and Rahu sub, Rahu is in Venus star in Leo (Simha) and Jupiter sub. The 7th lord and sub lord of the 7th, cusp is Saturn who transited in the star and sub of Venus in Leo (Simha). Lord of 5/8 (11/2 of wife) Jupiter is in Saturn star and Venus sub in Cancer (Kataka). The sub lord of the Ascendant (7th of wife is Mercury whose transit as Dasa lord has already been seen. The lord of the Ascendant (7th of wife) is the Sun himself. Thus the transits, with reference to the lords of Dasa, Bhukthi etc., the luminaries, sub lord of the essential 7th cusp, lords of 2, 7 and 11 of the native were as those counted from the 7th house agrees in full. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 116 B) Child Birth: Progeny is to be perused from the 11th cusp (5th of wife). The sub lord of the 11th cusp is Saturn who is in its own star in and sub of Venus in 5. Saturn and Venus are not in barren signs. Putrakaraka, Jupiter, is not in a barren sign. Jupiter is in the star and sub of Saturn in 11. Even the sub lord of the 5th cusp who is Mercury is in the star of Jupiter lord of 5 and 8 (11/2 of wife) showing promise of child birth. The native’s daughter was born on Thursday 10-4-1980 at 6-15 a.m. when he was running Mercury dasa, Rahu bhukthi. Saturn anthra and Moon sookshama. Dasa lord Mercury is lord of 2 and 11 in the star of Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 (11 and 2 of wife) and sub of Sun who is in the star of Rahu representing Venus (in 5), Jupiter lord of 5 and 8, Moon (occupant of 11) and Mars aspecting 2. Bhukthi lord, Rahu, represents, as we have noted, Jupiter lord of 5/8; Venus, an occupant of 5 ;Moon, an occupant of 11; and Mars aspecting 2. Anthra lord Saturn is in 11, aspecting 2, in own star and sub of Venus in 5. Saturn is aspected by Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8. Sookshama lord Moon, is in 11 in the star of Jupiter and in own sub. Transit on the day of child birth (10-4-1980) the Sun transited the star of dasa lord, Mercury, in Pisces (Meena) and in Jupiter sub.The sookshama lord, Moon transited its - R.B.T. - 117 own star In Capricorn (Makara) and in the sub of the anthra lord Saturn. Dasa lord, Mercury, was over the star of Jupiter in Pisces (Meena) and sub of the sookshama lord Moon. Bhukthi lord, Rahu, was in Leo (Simha) in the star of Kethu (a significator of 11 and representative of Jupiter) and sub of Sun (in the horoscope Sun is in the star of Rahu who represents Jupiter, Venus etc). Anthra lord, Saturn, transited the star of Sun and sub of the sookshama lord, Moon. The 5th lord and ‘Putrakaraka’, Jupiter, moved over Kethu star in Leo (Simha) and Rahu sub. The sub of the 5th cusp and lord of 2 and 11 is Mercury who is the Dasa lord.Jupiter is the ruler of the 2nd and 11 th for wife, and Mercury is her 5th lord. The sub lord of the 5th cusp for wife is Saturn who is the Anthra lord.Thus the transits agree in all respects from the native’s side as well as from his wife’s. 11. Application of Krishnamurti Padhdhatito Astottari Dasa System: It is said that Astottari Dasa System gives accurate results to those who are bom in Sukla Paksha. There are 8 Dasas in this system and the duration of all the Dasas together is 108 years.The name of this system itself implies that it is Astottara Satham in this system Kethuis eliminated from holding the lordship of any star and consequently Kethu Dasa is not found in this system. Anew constellation -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 118 Abhijit is introduced between Uthrashada and Sravana. The longitudinal length 8 of these three Stellar zones are as follows. Uthrashada from 266°-40” to 276M0’Abhijit from 276°-40' to 280°- 53-20' and Sravana from 280°-53’-20' to 293°-20'.Lordship of planets over different stars, length of dasa pf each planet and order of Dasaa in tbe Astottari System are given below. Arudra, Punarvasu, Pusbyam, Aslesha -Sun-6 years. Makha.Puram, Uthram -Moon-15 years. Hastham, Chitrai, Swathi, Visakham -Mars-8 years. Anuradba, Jyesta, Moolam -Mercury-17years. Poorvashada.Uthrashada.Abbijit,Sravana -Saturn-10 years. Dhanishta, Sathabisha, Poorvabhadra -Jupiter-19 years. Uthrabhadra, Revathi, Aswini, Bharani -Rahu-12 years. Krithigai, Rohini, Mrigaslra -Venus-21 years. In the horoscope on hand, Moon,is 131 °-14' ahead or Sun, which indicates that thebirth is in Sukla Paksha.So Astottari System should give correct results. Following is the constellational position of planets and cusps as per the Astottari system. Planet Constellation Lord Sun Sathabisba Jupiter Moon Punarvasu Sun Mars Dhanishta Jupiter - R.B.T. - 119 Mercury Poorvabhadra Jupiter Jupiter Anuradha Mercury Venus Utbrashada Satur Saturn Pushyam Sun Rahu Rohini Venus Kethu Anuradha Mercury Cusp Constellation Lord 1 Makha Moon II Uthram Moon III Swathi Mars IV Anuradha Mercury V Moolam Mercury VI Sravana Saturn VII Sathabisha Jupiter VIII Uthrabhadra Rahu IX Aswini Rahu X Rohini Venus XI Arudra Sun XII Pushyam Sun Punarvasu ends at 3°-20' in Cancer(Kataka), Moon at the person’s is at 0°-17'-23’ in Cancer. So the balance in Punarvasu is 3°-2'-37". Dasa lord for Punarvasu is Sun whose Dasa period is 6 years. So the balance of Sun Dasa at birth is 3°-2'-37" 3°-20'-00" x 6 years = 10957" 48000” x 6 years = ly-4m-13d. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 120 A) Marriage - Star lord of the 7th cusp is Jupiter here who is in the star of Mercury (in this system)lord of 2 and 11 in 7. Hence marriage is promised. The native’s marriage according to Astottari System took place in Mercury Dasa, Rahu Bhukthi and Sun anthra. Dasa lord Mercury is lord of 2 and 11 in 7 in the star poorvabhadra ruled by Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 who is aspecting Saturn, lord of 7. Bhukthi lord, Rahu, is in Rohini, a star ruled by Venus, and also Rahu is the sign of Venus, who is the Karilka planet for marriage and Venus is in the star Uthrashada ruled by Saturn, lord of 7. Also Rahu represents Mars and Jupiter by aspect. Jupiter is Lord of 5 and 8 (11 and 2 of (wife) aspecting Saturn, lord of 7. Jupiter is in the star Anuradha owned by Mercury, lord of 2 and 11 in 7. Mars is aspecting houses 1 and 2 in the star Dhanishta owned by Jupiter. Anthra lord, Sun, is lord of Ascendant (7 of wife) in 7 associated with Mercury, lord of 2 and 11. The Sun is in the star Sathabisha ruled by Jupiter. Transit on the day of marriage(11-5-79) was as follows :- Luminary and anthra lord, Sun is in Bharani star ruled by the bhukthi lord, Rahu. Luminary Moon is in Swathi ruled by Mars who is a significator of 5 and 8 (11,2 of wife). Dasa lord, Mercury is in Aswini owned by Rahu. The 7th cusp star lord, Jupiter, is in Pushyam owned by Sun, lord of 1 (7 of wife) in 7. Ascendant star lord (7th of - R.B.T. - 121 wife) is the luminary Moon. The 7th lord, Saturn, is in Poovaphalguni otherwise known as Pubba owned by Moon, a. significatorof 7. Ascendant lord (7 of wife) is the luminary Sun. Thus the transit agrees in every way. B) Child Birth : The 5th cusp falls In Moolam ruled by Mercury and the 11th cusp falls in Arudra ruled by Sun. Mercury is in Poorvabhatha while Sun is in Sathabisha. Both these seen are ruled by Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 (11,2 of wife). None of the planets Merrcury, Sun and Jupiter is in a barren sign. So, child birth is promised. On the day of birth of the native’s daughter (10.4.1980), the native was running Mercury dasa.Rahu bhukthi, Saturn anthra and Moon sookshama. Dasa lord, Mercury is lord of 11 (5 of wife) and 2 in Poorvabhadra, owned by Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8(11 in 2 of wife). Bhukthi lord, Rahu represents Jupiter, Mars and Venus. Jupiter is lord of 5 and 8 in the star Anurada owned by Mercury, lord of 2 and 11. Mars Is in Dhanishta ruled by Jupiter. Venus is in the star, Uthrashada owned by Saturn who is aspecting 2 and aspected by Jupiter, Anthra lord, Saturn, is in the star Pushyam owned by the Sun who is associated with Mercury, lord of 2 and 1 land a significator of 5 and 8. Sookshama lord, Moon,is in Ponarvasu owned by Sun who is in Jupiter’s star Sathabisha. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 122 Transit at the time of child birth was as follows: Sun was in Revathi ruled by Bhukthi lord Rahu. Moon was in Sravana owned by the anthra lord, Saturn. Dasa lord, Mercury, is in Poorvabhadra ruled by Jupiter. Bhukthi lord Rahu is In Makha ruled by the sookshama lord, Moon. Anthra lord, Saturn is In Uthra owned by Moon. Sooksbama lord is Moon. 5th cusp star lord, Mercury, is the dasa lord. 5th lord Jupiter, is in Makha owned by the sookshama lord Moon. 11th cusp star lord (5th of wife) is Sun. Thus transit agrees in full. III. Kalachakra Dasa System Readers are requested to refer to the Article Kalachakra Dasa System and Stellar Astrology by Sri. M.G.G. Nayar published in the October 1977 issue of Astrology and Athishta magazine at pages 8 to 15 for the required information which is not reproduced here in order to cut short the length of this article. Planet Star with Pada Sun Sathabisha ...4 Moon Punarvasu ...4 Mars Dhanista ...4 Mercury Poorvabhadra ...3 Jupiter Anuradha ...1 - R.B.T. - 123 Venus Uthrashada ...3 Saturn Pushyam ...2 Rahu Rohini ...2 Kethu Anuradha ...1 Cusp Star with Pada 1 Makha ...4 II Uthram ...4 III Swathi ...2 IV Anuradha ...3 V Moolam ...4 VI Sravana ...1 VII Sathabisha ...2 VIII Uthrabhadra ...2 IX Aswini ...4 X Rohini ...1 XI Arudra ...2 XII Pushyam ...3 I may say that for those who are not in touch with Kalachakra Dasa System unless the article of October 1977 Astrology and Athishta referred to above is a kept side by side, the process of this system and the discussion made herein will be unintelligible. As a matter of fact. Sri.Nayar’s illuminating article should be studied thoroughly to understand the whole thing. Moon at birth is in Punarvasu 4th pada. Punarvasu belongs to group A stars. The 4th pada is ruled by Moon. So, the lord of the dasa at birth is the Moon. This system gives correct results if the Moon in the horoscope is -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;.K.P.- 124 associated with or aspected by the lord of the dasa at birth terms of this system. In the chart under study, Moon is the Dasa lord at birth according to the Kalachakra Dasa System. So this system should give correct results. , Lord (Pisces) Jupiter (Cancer) Moon (Sagittarius) Jupiter (Taurus) Venus (Pisces) Jupiter (Taurus) Venus (Aquarius) Saturn (Virgo) Mercury (Sagittarius) Jupiter Lord (Pisces) Jupiter (Capricorn) Saturn (Gemini) Mercury (Cancer) Moon (Sagittarius) Jupiter (Virgo) Mercury (Aquarius) Saturn (Cancer) Moon (Sagittarius) Jupiter (Virgo) Mercury (Libra) Venus Punarvasu ends in Cancer at 3°-20'. Moon at birth is at 0°-17'-23' in Cancer. Balance of 4th pada of Punarvasu is 3°-2'-37\ Length of Moon dasa is 21 years. 3°-02'-37" _ , 3 o -20'-00" x21 V ears : 10957" x2 i years 12000 ” = 19y-2m-3d. Date of birth =1947-3-3 (Cancer) Moon Balance = (Leo) Sun dasa = (Virgo) Mercury dasa = 19-2-3 66-5.6 5-0-0 71.5-6 9-0.0 80-5-6 Bhukthis in (Virgo) Mercury Dasa : Virgo (Kanya), Capricorn (Makara) and Taurus (Rishaba) are trine signs. Divisor for Taurus trine is 85. Capricorn is a Chara Rasi. So the Bhukthi should commence with (Capricorn) Saturn followed by (Aquarius) Saturn, (Pisces) Jupiter etc., (Capricorn), Saturn bhukthi in (Virgo) Mercury Dasa is -r x 4 years =5m-2y 2 85 (Aquarius) Saturn bhukthi is also 5 months=2!4 days. (Pisces) Jupiter bhukthi = ^ x 10 years = 1 year-0 month-21 days Similarly, the J other bhukthis are to be calculated. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 126 Thus it can be seen that (Leo) Sun bhukthi runs from 12-11-1978 to 22-5-1979. Anthras In (Leo) Sun bhakthi or 6 months 11 days. Leo, Simha, Sagittarius Dhanur and Aries areTVIesha trine signs. Divisor for Aries trine is 100. Aries is the Chara Rasi. So the Anthras commence with (Aries) Mars followed by (Taurus) Venus etc., The first Anthra of (Aries) Mars is: 6m 11 d x 7_= 13 days 100 Since the native’s marriage took place towards the end of Sun bhukthi, the last anthra will be that of (Sagittarius) Jupiter which is: 6m lid X 10.= 19 days. 100 This anthra runs between 4-5-79 and 23-5-79. The marriage took place in Mercury dasa, Sun bhukthi and Jupiter anthra. The 7th cusp falls in Sathabisha 2 ruled by (Virgo) Mercury who is lord of 2 and 11 in 7. Mercury is in poorvabhadra 3 ruled by (Taurus) Venus, the Karaka planet for marriage occupying the 5th and aspecting the 7th lord Saturn. So marriage is Indicated. - R.B.T. - 127 A) Marriage: Dasa lord, Mercury, is lord of 2 and 11 in 7 in Poorvabhadra 3 ruled by (Taurus) Venus in 5. Bhukthi lord, Sun, is lord of the Ascendant (7 of wife) in 7 in Sathabisha 4 ruled by (Pisces) Jupiter, lord 1 of 5 and 8 aspecting the 7th lord Saturn. Anthra lord, Jupiter, is lord of 5 and 8 (11,2 of wife) In Anuradha 1 ruled by (Pisces) Jupiter. At the time of marriage at 10 a.m. on 11.5-79 Sun was in Barani 4 (Cancer) of Moon (Moon was an occupant of the 11th house in the Horoscope). Moon was in Swathi 3 (Taurus) of Venus. Dasa lord, Mercury, was in Aswini 3 (Taurus) of Venus. Bhukthi lord is Sun. The anthra lord, Jupiter, is in Pusbyam 2 (Aquarius) Saturn, lord of 7. Mercury rules the 7th cuspal point while Jupiter rules the cuspal point 7th from the 7th. Lord of 2 and 11 is the Dasa lord, Mercury. Lord of 5, 8 (11, 2 of wife) is the anthra lord, Jupiter, and lord of the Ascendant (7 of wife) is the Bhukthi lord Sun. Their transit at the time of marriage has just been seen. The 7th lord Saturn is in Pubba 1 (Pisces) of Jupiter who is the anthra lord. Thus the transit agrees in full. B) Child Birth The 5th cusp falls in Moola 4 (Cancer) of Moon who is in 11 in the.4th pada of punarvasu (Cancer) Moon. Moon -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 128 is aspected by Jupiter who is Putrakaraka as well as lord of 5 and 8 (11,2 of wife). The 11th,cusp falls in Arudhra 2 owned by (Virgo) Mercury who is lord of 2 and 11 in poorvabhadra 3 owned by (Taurus) Venusian occupan t of 5, so child birth is promised. The native’s daughter was born on 10-4-1980 at 6-15 a.m. The native runs the Dasa of (Virgo) Mercury upto 6.5-1980. As shown in the case of the native’s marriage, the bhukthis in (Virgo) Mercury dasa start with (Capricorn) Saturn and the last bhukthi will be that of (Virgo) Mercury and it operates from 22-5-79 to 6-5-80. The anthra in (Virgo) Mercury bhukthi starts with (Capricorn) Saturn and ends with (Virgo) Mercury. The last anthra of (Virgo) Mercury runs from 30-3-80 to 6-5-80. The child birth actually took place during this period only. Therefore child birth falls in (Virgo) Mercury dasa (Virgo) Mercury bhukthi and (Virgo) Mercury anthra. If we proceed in the same manner. It will be seen that (Aries) Mars sookshama period in (Virgo) Mercury anthra runs from 8-4-80 to 11 -4-80 Dasa bhukthi and anthra lord Mercury is lord of 11 (5 of wife) and 2 in the 3rd pada of Poorvabhadra ruled by (Taurus) Venus, an occupant of 5 (11 of wife). The sookshama lord, Mars, is in Dhanista 4th7pada owned by (Sagittarius) Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 (11,2 of wife) and putrakaraka. Transit at the time of child birth is that the sun is in Revathi 4 (Cancer) Moon, an occupant of - R.B.T. - 129 11 and the star lord of 5. Moon is in Sravana 2 (Virgo) Mercury who is the dasa lord. The dasa, bhukthi and anthra lord, Mercury who is in Poorvabhadra 4 (Cancer) of Moon, Jupiter, lord of the native’s 5th and lord of 2 and 11 of his wife is in Makha 3 (Virgo) Mercury who is the dasa lord and lord of 2 and 11. Moon rules the 5th cuspal point while Mercury rules the 11 th cuspal point and their tansit has been seen. Thus the transit agrees in all respects. IV. Application of Krishnamurti Padhdhati to the lagna dasa In this system all the cusps will have the same longitude as the 10th cusp. The main characteristic of this system is that the dasa balance at birth is obtained from the longitude of the Ascendant in the Vimsottari system. In the other dasa systems the position of the Moon is used to determine the balance of dasa at birth. Here the lagna dasa differes from other systems. Another feature of the lagna dasa system followed by Sri. B.N.Nayak is that the cuspal points are useful only to note down the lords of star and sub of the cuspal point but the cpspal point has no relevance to a bhava as the cuspal point is not the starting point or the end point, or the middle of the bhava. A bhava commences with the commencement of a sign and ends where the sign ends. For example, if the 2nd cusp falls in Aries (Mesba), no matter whatever be the position of the -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 130 2nd cuspal point, the whole Aries is treated as the 2nd bhava. I may say in this connection that the bhava system followed by Sri. Nayak differs from the traditional system also. In the traditional system, the rasi chart and bhava, chart are different. A planet in the 4th sign from the Ascendant may go to the 3rd bhava or it may remain in the 4th bhava in the traditional system. X 11-54’ Rahu 13-53’ Merc. (R) 29*1 ’ Sun 19-3* Mars 6"3’ 0-17’23’’ Sat (R) 9-48’ Ven, 5T Asc. 11“54’ Ket. 13-53’ Jup 4-22’ Changes observed in this system in the lordship of cuspal star and sub are given below: II Moon - Rahu VIIISaturn -Moon. Dasa balance at birth is to be calculated as if Moon is in 11 °-54' in Leo (Simha).This gives Kethu dasa balance at birth as 0 year, 9 months, 1 day. A) Marriage The sublord of the 7th cusp is Saturn, who is lord of 7 aspecting 2 and is aspected by Jupiter lord of 5 and 8,Saturn - R.B.T. - 131 is in its own star and sub of Venus, the chief governer for marriage. So marriage is promised. Marriage took place in Moon dasa, Saturn bhukthi Rahu anthra and Mercury sookshama running from 3(M-79 to 12-5-79. The date was 11 -5-79 Dasa lord Moon is lord of 12 in 12, but Moon is in the star of Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8. Moon is conjoined with 7th lord, Saturn and is aspccted by Venus and Jupiter. Bhukthi lord Saturn is aspecting 2 and is aspected by Venus and Jupiter. Saturn is lord of 7 in own star and sub of Venus. Anthra lord Rahu represents Mars, Jupiter, Moon and Venus. Here Jupiter and Venus are significators of the 7th house. Mars is in 7 in own star. Sookshama lord, Mercury, is lord of 2 and 11 in 7, in the star of Jupiter and sub of Sun in 7. So Mercury as the sookshma lord is the strongest to bring about the marriage of the native. Transit at the time of marriage was that the Sun moved in Venus star, Kethu sub. In the chart Kethu represents Jupiter, Mars and Saturn. Moon is in Venus sign, in the star of anthra lord, Rahu. Bhukthi lord, Saturn, is in the star and sub of Venus in Leo. Anthra lord, Rahu, in Leo in Venus star, Jupiter sub. Sookshma lord, Mercury, is in Aries in Kethu star, Rahu sub. The 7th sub lord is Saturn and Ascendant (7 of wife) sub lord is Mercuiy who are lords of the dasa period. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 132 The lord of 5 and 8 (11 and 2 of wife). Jupiter, is in Saturn star. Venus sub. Thus the transit agrees tn full. B) Child Birth The 5th cusp sub lord is Mercury who is lord of 2 and 11 in the star of Jupiter lord of 2 and 8 (11, 2 of wife). The 11 th cusp sub lord is Saturn who is aspecting 2 and is aspected by Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8, as well as putrakaraka. So child birth is promised. The native’s daughter was born on 10-4-80 at 6.15 a.m. when the native was undergoing Moon dasa, Mercury bhukthi and Moon anthra and sookshama. Dasa, Anthra and sookshama lord Moon, is in the star of Jupiter, lord of 5 and 8 (11, 2 of wife) and in own sub. Also Moon is aspected by Jupiter Bhukthi lord, Mercury, is lord of 11 (5 of wife) and 2 and a significator of 5 and 8 placement in the star of Jupiter. Transit at 6-15 a.m. on 10-4-80, the day of birth of the child was as follows The Sun was In the star of the bhukthi lord, Mercury and sub of Jupiter. Bhukthi lord Mercury transited Jupiter star and the sub of the dasa, anthra and sookshma lord, Moon. The 5th cusp sub lord is the bhukthi lord Mercury. The 11 th cusp sub lord is Saturn who is in the star of Sun and sub of Moon. In the chart, the Sun is associated - R.B.T. - 133 with Mercury and in the star of Rahu representing Jupiter.Thus the transit agrees completely. Conclusion : - It is clear from the foregoing discussion that a planet gives the result of its star lord. In other words a tenant is stronger than the owner. This is the fundamental principle in Krishnamurti Padhdhati and can be universally applied to any dasa system. The applicability of Krishnamurti Padhdhati to any dasa system is in itself a strong proof of its scientific nature. GOOD LUCK - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 134 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Birth rectification is the most important aspect in Astrology. I am appealing to all astrologers that they must do birth rectification before casting horoscope. In my 30 years of experience, the consultants are not giving correct birth time. Even in hospitals also the birth time is not recorded accurately. If you have not done rectification of birth time, how can your predictions come true? This point was lurking in my mind for a very long time. Therefore I took much pains to arrive at a correct formula for this purpose. There are many methods, but none of them are very reliable. In my opinion the Krishnamurti Padhdathi is very minute and accurate one in Astrology. If Krishnamurti Padhdathi followers could not find out correct birth time they cannot get correct sublords of the cusps, when they cannot get correct sub-lord, their predictions will fail. Therefore I sent my findings to the Editor of K.P. &amp; Astrology. The Editor of this book published my article reg : the three steps of birth rectification in the title of Research Study in May ‘91 issue of Astrology &amp; Athrishta. I am very grateful to him for his kindness. Now I am receiving letters from the readers of this magazine requesting me to write an article regarding Nakshatra Ganitha and Tatwa Shodhana with some examples. I think they did not understand properly this - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 135 method. Therefore I am writing this article with two examples of horoscopes as to how to apply this method and what accuracy we can get. First Nakshatra Ganitha for correct birth star and its pada and birth time is to be considered. See the example horoscopes as how to calculate Nakshthra Ganitha. Secondly. Tatwa Shodhana or Kalachakra table for referring sex. Kalachakra begins at 5.30 a.m. 1ST 5.30 a.m. 5.36 а. m. Prithvi, 5.36 to 5.48 a.m. Jala, 5.48 to 6.06 a.m. Agni, б. 06 to 6.30 a.m. Vayu, 6.30 to 7.00 a.m. Aakasha. This is acendent. Then 7.00 to 7.30 a.m. Aakasha, 7.30 to 7.54 a.m. Vayu, 7.54 to 8.12 a.m. Agni, 8.12 to 8.24 Jala, 8.24 to 8.30 Prithwi. This is descendent. According the above, prepare table for 24 hours. The 8 ascendants and 8 descendents will follow each other for 24 hours. Male child will be born in Prithwi, Agni and Aakasha tatwas. Female child will be bom in Jala and Vayu tatwas. Please see example horoscopes for confirming sex. Please refer to example horoscope for comparing Kalachakra. Finally verify the ruling planets of the nearest relatives of the chart for confirmation. 4th house Mother, 3rd house brother, 11th Elder brother or sister, 9th house Father, 7th house. Wife, 5th house Children, rasilord. Star-lord. Sub-lord Relatives R.P. are Day-lord. Star-lord Rasi-lords. These planets should be connected in anyway for that house. By following the above methods in my opinion one can correctly predict the birth time With relative accuracy which is the corner stone for all further predictions. - R.B.T. - 136 Binn Ret. i cation Example 1. Facts 1. Female child born on 19-2-1965 in Hospital (operation case). Time furnished by Hospital people 8-10 a.m.-Place of birth-Bangalore. 2. For 8-10 a.m. Birth Star Hastha and 3rd pada. 3. Sunrise on that day Bangalore 6.43 a.m. App. birth time 8-10 a.m. (-) Sunrise time 6.43 Convert the difference time of 1.27 to ghati/vightis 1.27 (one hr.=2V2 ghatis, one minute =214 vighatis) Difference between sunrise to birth time 1 hr. 27 mts.X214 3 Ghatis and 37 vighatis (Refer my previous article Nakshatra Ganitha) If birth star is Moon group star, you have to take vighatis 27 to 33. We require vighatis for Hastha 3rd Pada.: I have taken 31 vighatis. Now this 3 ghatis and 31 vighatis to be multiplied by 9. 279 vighatis converted into Ghatis add Ghati Sthana. Now it comes 31.39. Further divide the Ghati Sthana by 27. Count from Ashwini, 4th star is Rohini. Rohini, Hastha, Shravana are Moon group stars. 3.31X9 27.279 279-60 4.39 27.39 4.0 31.39 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 137 Birth star is Hastha, then star is agreeable. Vighatis above 30 and below 45 is 3rd pada. Now convert this Ghati/vighatis into Hr. and Minutes and add it to sunrise. 1 hour 24 mts, one minute 24 sec+sun rise 6.43 8 hrs. 7 mts. 24 secs. Please refer Tatwa shoghana table for sex. In Tatwa shoghana table it shows 8-12AgniTatwa. In Agni Tatwa only Male child can be bom and not female. Therefore deduct 24 minutes from this time. 7-30 to 7-54 Vayutatwa. Then this time is correct. I have prepared Horoscope for this time 7-43-24 a.m. 27)31-i 4 3.31X24 1.24X2 1.24.24 6.43.0 8.07.24 7.54 to 8.7 24 0.24.0 7.43.24 D 29-29 in Ju.25-24 1110-29 Ra 26-6 IV 27-29 V 23-29 1 24-35 Sun 6-59 Mcr 2-55 Sal 13-26 19-2-1965 Friday 7-43-24 I.S.T. S.T. 17-19-10 VI 21-29 XII21-29 Venus 23-58 VII 24-35 XI 23-29 X 27-29 . Kcthu 26-2 1X0-29 VIII29-29 Moon 17-56 Mars (R) 1-54 Balance of Moon dasa 4 y 0 m 18 days. - R.B.T. - 131 1 Saturn Jupiter Mercury 1 Jupiter Mercury Saturn III Venus Sun Rahu IV Venus Mercury Jupiter V Mercury Jupiter Saturn VI Moon Venus Mercury VII Sun Venus Mercury VIII Mercury Mars Saturn IX Mars Jupiter Moon X Mars Mercury Jupiter XI Jupiter Venus Saturn XII Saturn Moon Venus XI house sub-lord Saturn. Her elder brother born on 23-2-1963 at 6-04 a.m. Saturday Saturn Rasi and Lagna Dhanishta star. XI house star, Lord Venus in Dhanista star. R.Ps agree with this horoscope. There the birth of the child is reckoned as 7-43-24 a.m. Time given at Hospital needs correcetion as above. Planets Position R.L. Star Sub Sun Saturn Rahu Rahu Moon Mercury Moon Mercury Mars Mercury Sun Jupiter Mercury Saturn Mars Venus Jupiter Mars Venus Mercury Venus Saturn Mars Saturn Saturn Rahu Rahu Venus Mars Kethu Mars Mercury - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 139 EXAMPLE II : Male child bom on 24-10-1987 Saturday and Vishaka Star in Hospital. Place birth-Bangalore Place-Hospital )Operation case)- Doctors given time 6-00 p.m. 2. Sun rise at 6-15 a.m. Bangalore Vishaka 3rd Pada aApprox time 6-00 p.m. or 18-00 hrs. (-) Sunrise 6-15 a.m. Difference of time 11 -45x2y2 Convert this time into Ghati and Vighatis 142-60 2.22 27.00 2.22 Ghati and Vighatis 29.22 Refer Nakshatra Ganitha table for Guru group stars For Punarvasu. Vighatis 47 to 53. We require for 3rd Pada. Therefore take 51 Vighatis Multiply it by 9 29.51x9 261-459+60 7- 7.39 - R.B.T. - 140 Now 29th Ghati and 51 vighatto be converted into Hr. and minutes 29.51x24 11 hrs. 56 mts. and 24 seconds after sunrise. Then and this time * 11.56.24 to sunrise 6.15 Total is 6.15.0 18.11.24 Refer to Tatwa Shodhana table for sex. It is 18.6 to 18.30 Vavu Tatwa. In this tatwa only female child can be born and not male. Therefore add 24 hrs. for nearest for Akasha Tatwa 18.11.24 Akasha tatwa 18-30 to 19-30 24.0 1 have cast the Horoscope 18.35.24 1ST for this time. (This horoscope referred his mother R.P. IV house falls Moon. Saturn, Sub sub. His mother born on 13-12-1964 at 5-46-36 p.m. Sunday Uttarbhadra star day. His IV house sub-lord Sun is in the Venus sign. His mother born in Vrishabha Lagna. Rahu is in Vrishabha. All R.Ps agree. Therefore this is correct birth time. The time furnished in the Hospital needs correction. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.R- 141 XII I3"25’ Rahu 7”13’ 1 I8“53’ Guru (R) 0“I7’ 11 17-25’ Fortuna 11°34’ III 14-25’ XI 10-25’ 24-10-1987 Saturday 6.35.24 p.m. S.T. 20.25.32 IV 10-25’ X 10“25’ V 10-25’ IX 14°24’ VII 17-25’ Sat 24-15’ VII 18-53’ Mn 29-39' Vcn 23-54’ Mercury (R) I5"S4’ Sun6"58’ VI13-25’ Ket 7-13’ Mars 16-32’ Balance of Guru dasa : 4y 5 m 1 days 1 Mars Venus Rahu 1 Venus Moon Saturn III Mercury Rahu Mercury IV Moon Saturn Sun V Sun Kethu Saturn VI Mercury Moon Rahu VII Venus Rahu Moon VIII Mercury Mercury Mercury IX Jupiter Venus Venus X Saturn Moon Moon XI Saturn Rahu Jupiter XII Jupiter Saturn Rahu Planets Position R.L. Star Sub Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter Venus Saturn Rahu Kethu Venus Venus Mercury Venus Mars Venus Mars Jupiter Mercury Rahu Jupiter Moon Rahu Kethu • Jupiter Mercur Saturn Sun Rahu Moon Saturn Venus Kethu Mercury Rahu Mercury Kethu - R.B.T. 142 BIRTH TIME &amp; BIRTH STAR RECTIFICATION AS PER K.P. &amp; R.P On 30th Jan '91 a lady came with the horoscose of her brother to confirm the birth time as the chart was cast for 12- 40 Night of 22nd June ’66 and the birth certificate showing the time 12-44 A M. 1ST of 22nd June 1966. So, I asked her to give a number within 108 for the birth time rectification. She said 90 at 1-24 P.M. 1ST No. 90 will come under 26-40 Capricorn i.e., Saturn sign Mars star Jupiter sub. Moon was in Moon sign Mercury star Mercury sub. So,I fixed his birth must be in Jupiter sign Saturn star Mars sub and as Mercury is in the star lord and Sub lord I fixed his birth must be Aslesha star. I worked for both the time i.e. for 12-40 &amp; 12-44 A.M. 1ST of 22nd June 66.1 found Jupiter sign Saturn star Mars Sub for the time 12-44.A.M. 1ST. i.e., the lagna degree fall at 12-16-11 in Pisces. When I worked planetary positions at that time I found Moon was in 106-14-24 i.e., Moon sign Saturn star Jupiter sub. So, I got confusion which made me to rectify the birth star. Once again I took a number within 108 for which she had given 96 at 1-50 p.m. 1ST. At that time Moon was in Moon sign Mercury star and Mercury sub and lagna for the No was Saturn sign Rahu star Venus sub. Day lord is Mercury.For the birth time as per Mahabala's Ephemeris for 1991 to 2000. Moon was in Moon sign Saturn star Jupiter sub which did not coincide with - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 143 the Birth star rectification as the ruling planets were Saturn, Rahu, Venus, Moon, Mercury, Mercury and Mercury. So I fixed that the native must have been born in the Moon sign Mercury star Mercury sub and Venus sub-sub. Because Mercury is the star lord sub lord and day lord. Jupiter didn’t appear in the ruling planets but for the time 12-44 a.m. 1ST Moon was in the Moon star Saturn sign Jupiter as per Ephemeris. From this point we can understand the perfectness of RULING PLANETS IN THE KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI. Ephemeris may be wrong in giving the planetary positions correctly but the RULING PLANETS WILL GIVE THE ACCURACY IN RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME AND BIRTH STAR. - R.B.T. - 144 STELLAR ASTROLOGY AND TIMING OF MARRIAGE Man, by nature", is a gregarious being. His first learning, as a child results from imitation and, as age advances, he tends increasingly to bind himself to others in partnership. Human beings have a certain chemistry that draws two people to one another unalterably and causes them to fulfil a special yearning for each other. Man’s primary partner is a life mate with whom he can function on all the levels of being open to him. As we all know, everything in the universe is comprised of energy. This energy is polarized between masculine-feminine, positive-negative, day-night, etc. In order for creation to take place, the energy must be polarized. Marriage is the response of human nature to the universal law of polarity. It serves to fulfil divine purpose of propagating the species. "Marriage”, as F. W. Robertson has aptly described, “is not a union merely between two creatures it is a union between two spirits; and the intention of that bond is to perfect the nature of both, by supplementing their deficiencies with the force of contrast, giving to each sex those excellencies in which it is naturally deficient; to the one strength of character and firmness of moral will; to the other, sympathy, meekness, tenderness.there is no earthly relationship which has so much power to ennoble and to exalt”. The science of Astrology explains existence and life. It is a unique system of interpretation of the correlation of planetary - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 145 action in human experience. Its secret lies in the understanding of Time. The three most important factors which constitute the foundation for all astrological work are the planets, the signs and the houses. Each sign is identified by certain characteristics while each house describes the special department of life through which the individual would enter into relationship with his environment. The planets represent focal points of unconscious energies. Associated with basic life principles. For instance, Jupiter governs the principle of expansion through growth materially and by understanding. In the Hindu literature of yore, he is called ‘Brihaspati’ (Brih means expansion). Mars tules the principle of activity through enterprise, initiatory force, self-assertion and energetic expression. Saturn expresses the principle of control or limitation. Venus presides over the principle of unity, adaptability and harmony. Mercury’s life principle is communication through mental and nervous coordination and transmission. The Sun’s principle is power, vitality and self expression, and that of the Moon is fluctuating. The planetary principles are not expressed in the same way through all the signs. If suppose in a chart, Mercury is posited in Rishaba in the 7th house, how will it work? Mercury, as we have seen, represents the communication principle. Rishaba is an earthy, fixed sign and shows materiality and practicality. Mercury in Rishaba would incline the individual to think in concrete terms so that he would orient himself towards practical goals. The sign is as important to a planet as an adjective is to a noun. The effect of a planet in a sign would be further modified by other factors, such as the house occupied the constellation - R.B.T. - 146 tenanted and the aspects received. Mercury in the 7th house.which rules partnership in life of business as well as all those with whom there is any dealing reveals that the individual’s mental faculties would be used in a concrete or practical way in affairs connected with partnership of any matter which implies reciprocity of rapport with other people. Mercury in the 7th house in the constellation of a signification of the 4th house would denote marriage with a relative and in the constellation of a significate of the 9th house marriage with an unknown person or a stranger. Mercury in the 7th house in the constellation of lord of 5 occupying the 11th house shows successful culmination of iove in marriage and lasting friendship. Mercury in the 7th house in the constellation of lord of 5, occupying the 8th or the 12th house shows difficulties by association, scandal and hostile criticism. Mercury in the 7th house identical with Rishaba generally indicates unsettled married life and dissension with the partner but also legacy and financial success of the marriage. This is so because in such a case. Mercury becomes the lord of the 8th and 11th houses. Mercury and the 8th house together show mental worries and troubles, and Mercury, the 8th and 11th combined denote gains by legacy, partner’s money etc. If Mercury in such a situation is afflicted by constellational position or aspect it may make the individual liable to litigation to defend against libel from others or on account of libel committed by himself (Mercury indicates writings) or in connection with a legacy left to him (the 8th house rules legacy and the 7th litigation). Mercury in Rishaba in the 7th in the constellation of a planet signifying evil houses shows a domineering nagging partner, - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 147 a sarcastic untruthful and hasty tempered person. If the same Mercury is in the constellation of Venus signifying favourable houses, say 2. 5. 7 and 11, it indicates a successful marriage to a youthful, loving, kind and sympathetic person who is ever willing to accommodate. The partner will also have good physical features and a graceful countenance. It also denotes an early marriage and an increase of prosperity after that event. The partner will be artistically inclined and would have the way for domestic felicity and happiness. By studying the planets in this manner and by noting the inter-relationships between the planets (aspects) and between the planets and the various houses, a correct planetary picture of the individual can surely be reached. Venus has traditionally been styled as the planet of unity, love, sympathy and harmony. She is ever ready to give wound and even to alter her own nature, in order to effect a compromise or arrive at a mutual understanding. No wonder she has been invested with an important role in affairs concerning marriage. She is hailed as the ‘kalathra karaka', the chief governor for matrimony. Of the signs. Thula has connection with the principle of union, and this again is ruled by Venus. In astrological language, the 7th house bears reference to union of partnership of any kind, be it marriage or business on trade ties, agreements, etc. This house, more than any other, tells us about the prospective spouse of the individual, the nature of marriage, the number of marriages that will be contracted, and the state of married life in general. In the traditional system practised in India, the old astrologers only took Venus and the 7th house into account. Prof. K. S. - R.B.T. - 148 Krishnamurti, the author of the now famous Krishnamurti Padhdhati, went a step further. He argued that a marriage is after all the strictest tie of perpetual friendship and contributes to the expansion of the family the houses 2 and 11 should additionally be considered. The 2nd house deals with family and its growth, and the 11th with ties of a permanent character. Thus the 2nd, 7th and 11th houses should be investigated together in ascertaining everything related to marriage, the prospects of Married life, the personality of the partner and the time of marriage. It has been said that marriage comes off out late in life if (i) Saturn is posited in houses 1,3, 5, 7 and 10 counted from thelagna, especially so when in houses 4,7 and 11 reckoned from Chandra and or Sukra, (ii) malefics occupy the 7th and adversely aspected, (iii) Mars is in the 8th, (iv) Moon and Saturn conjoin together in houses 2,7 and 11 and (v) Chandra, Venus and lord of 7 receive evil aspect, especially from Jupiter or Uranus, or even when favourably aspected by Saturn. With these principles in mind, we shall presently see how effectively Krishnamurti Padhdhati answers the delay ia fructification of marriage and the exact time of marriage. The native was born on 22-3-1944 at 10-10 A.M. (I.S.T) at 19°-18' North Latitude and 84°-51 1 East Longitude. At the time of birth, the balance of Mars Dasa according to the Vimshottari system was 0 year, 2 months and 28 days. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 149 Pisces Meena 0 Aries Taurus Gemini Mesha 30 Rishaba 60 Mithuna 90 w a? 120 230 is 240 Scorpio 210 Libra 180 Vrlschik Thulam Cuspal positions House Sign lord Star lord Sub lord II Mercury Rahu Venus VII Mars Mercury Venus XI Jupiter Saturn Rahu Planetary positions Planet House(s) Owned Occupied Sian DeoDO sited in Star owned by Sub owned by Sun 6 10 Meena Saturn Venus Moon 3 9 Kumbba Mars Moon Mars 7/12 1 Mithuna Mars Venus Mercury 2/5 11 Meena Saturn Rahu Jupiter (R) 8/11 3 Kataka Mercury Rahu Venus 1/6 10 Kumbba Rabu Mercury Saturn 9/10 1 Rishaha Mars Jupiter Rahu - 2 Kataka Saturn Vlnus Ketu - 8 Makara Moon Moon Uranus - 11 Risbaba Moon Rabu Neptune(R) - 4 Kanya . Sun Venus Mar 13*-25' XI 13*49’ Sun 8-38' XII18*49’ lira. l2“-30’ 120--53’ Sat27“-34' Mars 3“-57’ II17*49’ Ven IJ--07- X 10*-19* Moon 6"-12' NIRAYANA Rahu 10*-54’ III 12*19’ Ju(R) 24°48’ IX 12*49’ Kctu Iff-M’ IV 10*49’ VIII17*49* VII 20“-53’ VI I8"-19’ Nep(R)9*-56’ V 13*49’ - R.B.T. - 150 Significators of marriage The significators are the planets who are placed in the constellation of those occupying houses 2,7,11, the occupants of these houses, the planets tenanted in the constellation of lords of these houses, and the lords of 2,7 and 11. 2 nd House-Rahu is in the 2nd house. Venus is in Rahu's nakshatra. Mercury owns the 2nd. Jupiter is in Mercury's nakshatra. 7 th House-Unoccupied. Mars is the lord of the house. Mars occupies his own star and Saturn and Moon are also posited in Mars’ star. 11™ House-Mercury alone occupies this house. Jupiter is stationed in the star of Mercury. Jupiter is lord of 11 and no planet is in Jupiter's star. So the significators are Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Rahu, Moon, Saturn and Mars. Jupiter aspects the 7th and 11th house (by the 5th and 9th aspect) as well as Mercury in the 11th house. Jupiter is the dasa lord receiving aspect from Saturn, the delaying planet. Venus in the constellation of Rahu who occupies the 2nd house and also conjoined with Jupiter, lord of 11, and Mercury, lord of 2 occupying the 11th house aspected by lord of 11 are strong significators by virtue of the conjoint ownership of the 7th cusp as star and sub lord. As Saturn aspects the dasa lord, Jupiter, the 7th house and the kalathra karaka (Venus) the fructification of marriage should -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 151 be delayed. Also, Saturn is posited in the lagna and in 4th reckoned from both Venus and Moon. The 7th house receives Saturn's aspect. Mars aspects the 8th house. Venus and Moon are in evil aspect with Uranus (square) and Jupiter (quincunx). Moon and Venus also receive Saturn s aspect according to the Indian system. These testimonies favour delayed marriage: As the sub¬ lord of the 7th house is Venus, who is the chief governor for matrimony and as Venus is also a significatorofthe 2nd house, the prospect of marriage taking place is confirmed, but as Venus is aspected by Saturn, the time of the marriage is delayed. The native is at present running Jupiter’s dasa which commenced on 20-6-1962. From 2-5-1970 be ran the bhukti of Venus till 2-1-1973. The details are: Dasa Bhukti Anthra From To Jupiter Venus Venus 02- 05-1970 12-10-1970 Sun 12-10-1970 30-11-1970 Moon 30-11-1970 20- 02-1971 Mars 20- 02-1971 16- 04-1971 Rahu 16- 04-1971 10- 09-1971 Jupite. 10- 09-1971 18-01-1972 Saturn 18-01-1972 20- 06-1972 Mercury . 20-06-1972 06-11-1972 Ketu 06-11-1972 02-01-1973 - R.B.T. - 152 Jupiter and Mercury are posited in the sub of Rahu in the 2nd house. Venus is placed in the sub of Mercury, lord of 2 in 11. None of the other planets occupy the sub of the occupants of houses 2,7 and 11. The anthra of Mercury in Venus bhukti operating between 20-6-1972 and 6-11-1972 was therefore selected as the most significant period for marriage. During this time, when Sun transited in Mercury’s sign Mithuna in the star of Rahu, a significator not only by virtue of his placement in the 2nd but also his conjunction with Jupiter (lord of 11), lord of 7, Mars, transited in the 2nd house in dasa lord Jupiter’s star, lord of 2 and anthra lord, Mercury, transited his own sign in the 2nd house in the star of dasa lord, Jupiter, and sub of bhukti lord. Venus, Moon transited the star of Jupiter, dasa lord, and sign of Venus, bhukti lord, and when Venus herself transited her own sign and the star of lord of 7, the betrothal took place. The day was Friday the 23rd June 1972. The marriage was celebrated on Saturday the 19th August 1972 when (i) lord of 7,' Mars, transited in Simha in, aspect to the 7th house (4th aspect), bhukti lord Venus. (7th aspect) and anthra lord Mercury (8th aspect), (ii) Venus (lord of the bhukti) transited exactly in conjunction with the cusp of the 2nd house in the radical chart (iii) Mercury transited his own constellation Aslesha, (iv) Jupiter and Moon transited in the 7th house, and Moon transited the constellation of Mercury in trine aspect with dasa lord, Jupiter’s natal position. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 153 Sagittarius M Capricorn w Aquari Dhanus o Makara g Kumt Progressed Chart Pisces Aries Taurus Gemini Meena 0 Mesha 30 Rishaba 60 Mithuna 240 Scorpio 210 Libra 180 Vrischik Thulam Transits on 19-8-1972 Pisces Aries Taurus Gemini Meena 0 Mesha 30 Rishaba 60 Mithuna 240 Scorpio 210 Libra 180 Vrischik Thulam - R.B.T. - 154 By the system of progression which reckons every day after birth as equal to a year of life, the Sun comes to 6° in Mesha in sextile (60° degree) aspect with the radial Moon. Progressed Moon in 20° Kumbha is angular (90° aspect) to the radial 7th house and is in Jupiter’s star. Lord of 7, Mars, progresses exactly over the cusp of the natal 2rd house. Venus progresses in dasa lord’s sign Meena in the constellation of Mercury, anthra lord. In Western Astrology, the square aspect has been considered as unfavorable by most of the authorities. As far as experience goes, the effect of square aspect is not evil in the real sense. More aptly, it is en aspect of struggle and, ultimately, success. The square aspect has been found to excite the events in almost all cases. Here Progressed Venus in 18° Meena exactly squares progressed Mars in 18°-3I’ Mithuna as well as Progressed VII cusp in 16°-46’ Dhanus. Progressed Moon is in exact square aspect to the lagna and the 7th cusps at birth. The effects of aspects of progressed Venus and progressed Moon in the present case serve to show that we cannot lay much store by the so called evil effects of square or opposition aspects. On the other hand, they have been instrumental in bringing to pass an auspicious event. The above illustration amply goes to prove that the system of stellar astrology propounded by the late Prof. Krishnamurti alone can clearly pinpoint the nature and time of an event accurately. Or else, how can the celebration of marriage in Jupiter dasa, Venus bhukti, Mercury anthra and Moon -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 155 sookhama be justified? Jupiter aspects the 7th house, it may be argued, but does marriage take place in Jupiter dasa whenever it throws such aspect? Is it a uniform rule? Venus is, of course, the kalathra karaka but unless she is connected to the 7th house in some manner can marriage come about according to the traditional rules? Is Venus connected to the 7th house or of even to 2 or 11 by occupation? In what way according to the traditional system, are Mercury and Moon concerned with marriage? Do they own the 7th house or occupy it or even aspect it? Stellar astrology alone can give us the right answer. Jupiter by his ownership of the 11th and occupation of the constellation of an occupant of the 11th. Venus by her occupation of the constellation of a planet in the 2nd, Mercury by reason of his rulership over the 2nd and occupation of the 11th and Moon by the constellations position (in the constellation of lord of 7) brought about marriage in Jupiter dasa, Venus bhukthi, Mercury anthra and Moon sookshama. The day of marriage was a Saturday, and Saturn was a significator by virtue of his situation in the star of Mars, lord of 7, and sub of Jupiter, lord of 11. This is the real explanation. The rules of Krishnamurti Padhdhati are simple, sound and scientific and do not admit of any ambiguity. Those who are still sweating by the old system and groping in the dark would do well to see the writing on the wall and seek the right path of stellar astrology as such to their benefit as to those who approach them for astroldgical advice. GOOD LUCK! RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Astrology is an ancient science, the secrets of which have been explained by great sages iike Satyacharya, Bhrigu, Varahamihira Parasara, Jaimini, Badarayana, Goutama, ada, Sounaka, Bharatwaja, Vasishta, Kalidasa, Yavanas and the like. Many great works of these sages have been lost and a stage has come when people begin to doubt its varacity and question its validity. Reasons are obvious. The present-day so- called astrologers not being conversant with the established principles or not being in a position to devote the time needed to work the details in full and give its deserved attention, dabble with the help of an error-ridden meagre chart and proceed to pronounce emphatically all sorts of yogas and calamities in store, in a single breath with the result that consultants, after a time finding nothing turning up as predicted, lose faith in astrologers and in turn in astrology also. The pitiable plight is self explanatory. In order to arrive at correct conclusions, a careful preparation of the chart in accordance with the time old principles is an inescapable necessity. The mighty preparation involved would easily take considerable time which indicates that Inscientious astrologer could scrutinise only limited charts and attend to limited in his life and this is seldom done. In consideration of the above and to let the readers of this valuable book know the correct approch to astrology, I propose to explain the basic principles, starting with the correction of birth time which is absolutely essential for any to read a chart correctly cast. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 157 Almanacs available in the market are based on Vakya, Siddanta and Drigganitha principles of working. As experience tells us, no two almanacs agree, even in a single respect. Added to this, the eternal doubts on ayanamsa and determination of birth time are there. Are we to take the commencement of flow or presentation of head or Bhupatana or the first breath as the birth time? Deleveries, conducted with surgical assistance, pose another problem. In this direction, it has been said that Bhuptltana should be treated as the final word on the matter. To determine this, is also another problem as intimation of birth is often given after a few minutes, as the first attention is to be given, even in the best run hospitals, to the new born and the mother before and other matter can be thought of either by the nurse or the doctor in attendance. So the need for correcting the time of birth before preparing the ohart is indispensible for any astrologer, as predictions pronounced without rectification prove to be misleading in a majority of the cases seen. In cases of deliveries conducted with surgical assistance it is fair to note the time of birth as indicated by Bhupatana and subject the same to the principles of rectification of birth time enunciated by the sages. Mutual aspect or conjunction of Moon with Mars results in causing the normal monthly periods at regular intervals of determing the date of conception from the date of birth. It has been stated that the rising sign and Moon should have the relation of benefics at the time of conception and the aspect - R.B.T. - 158 of Sun to achieve the fruit of conception, birth of a healthy child. It is also stressed that some benefics be posited in 2,4, 7, 9 and 10 houses either from lagna or Moon at the time of conception. There has been a difference of opinion on the aspects of either Sun or Jupiter to lagna or Moon. Majority of the Rishis are of opinion that the aspect of Sun is primary though the aspect of Jupiter may be present. Varahamihira says that when natural benefics transit t, 2,4,5,7,9,10 houses individually or in group with Moon and with malefics in 3 or 11 or when Jupiter aspects the adhana lagna, conception is sure. The birth of a child takes place normally in the tenth month in the sign indicated, by knowing the dwadasamsa occupied by Moon at conception. Suppose she occupies the 3rd dwadasamsa of a rasi, it is to be known to which rasi the said dwadasamsa belongs and the third house from the above rasi would be the position of Moon at birth. That goes to say that the rasi of moon at birth would be the rasi indicated by equal number of dwadasamsa to the rasi indicated by the moon’s dwadasamsa rasi at conception. When moon is in the 6th dwadasamsa of Kataka at conception, the rasi indicated is Dhanus. Moon at birth would be in Vrishaba, the 6th from Dhanus. Kalyanavarma and Varahamihira do not agree on this line of thought. According to Kalyanavarma, the dwadasamsa is to be counted from Mesha and the child would be born in the tenth month when Moon transits that rasi so indicated by the dwadasamsa elapsed at the time of conception counted from Mesha. In the above example, the moon at birth would be - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 159 in Kanya the 6th rasi from Mesha. Thus it is possible to know the position of Moon at birth of conception. Then again the difficulty is in determining the date of conception or birth as the case would be as Moon’s transit in any rasi is two and a quarter days approximately, and any rasi comprises of 9 quarters of any three constellations. Each quarter of a constellation has 200 kalas and every dwadasamsa is 150 kalas. When Moon is in the 9th dwadasamsa of Dhanus, she would be transisting Kalas between 1200 to 1350 indicating that the constellation would be Poorvashadha and its 3rd quarter. Then the birth of the child would take place in the rasi indicated by the position of moon as explained above at the time when 1200 Kalas have passed in that rasi. Thus the time of either conception or birth can be determined with reasonable precision. Normally, when moon transits the 7th house of her position at adhana navamsa, delivery takes place or it may be when the moon transits the rasis of the lord of adharna navamsa lagna. Again on this issue as well, Ramadayalu and Varahimihira differed. The former states that birth would take place in 5th or 7th rasi to adhana lagna while the latter opines that birth is sure to take place in the sign with moon which is as many rasis distant from the rasi indicated by her dwadasamsa position at the time of adhana. Kalyanavarma says that the 10th constellation from that of the-one at conception would be the constellation at birth. I would like readers to refer slokas 9 to 13 of Sapketa I of Sanketauiuhi. The method explained is - R.B.T. - 160 to add 240 days to the exact number of degrees that lapsed in lagna at birth plus the Moon’s longitude at birth which sum would indicate the number of days intenening from the time of conception to that of birth. Please note to add one day for the leap year if it intervenes. Other versions are that janma lagna would correspond to that of moon at adbana and vice versa. Note the bhava having planets on either side. Distance between the two nearest planets is to be added to the longitude of the preceding planet and subtracted from that of the succeeding planet. The point so reached indicates the correct longitude of the birth lagna. A period to be followed with a fruitful conception occurs when Mars aspects Moon in anupachayas. Conception takes place when Sun and Venus are posited in upachayas in rasi chart and their own navamsa chart of the male partner while the female partner’s Moon and Mars should occupy upachayas and be located in their own navamsas. Thus importance is given to the navamsa charts which help in of the janma lagna, lord of the lagna at the time of sun-set on the previous day, the planet presiding on that part of the day, the lord of the hour and the lord of the rasi occupied by Sun for day births and Moon for births at night. This should be identical with the navamsa, or janma lagna or the 10th from above, thus indicating the correct birth time. Another authority says that Moon should be at a place equidistant from adhana and janma lagnas of the diltance between the chandra lagna and janma lagna or adhana lagna should be the central point of janma and chandra lagnas at birth or between Sun and Moon lagnas at birth. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 161 According to Vaidhyanatha ‘Dikshita, the child conceived on all the even nights would be a boy and on odd nights would be a girl of which children conceived on 6th, 9th, 10th, 12th, 14th, 15th and 16th nights after menses would be fortunate. He further proceeds to say that Sun in 3 or in trines to adbana lagna indicates birth of a boy. The lagna of conception, Sun. Moon and Jupiter being powerful at the time of conception, if posited in odd rasis and navamsas, indicate birth of a male child. If they happen to occupy even signs, the child to be born will be a girl. It is not possible to see agreement of all the four factors in any given horoscope. As such, determination of the sex of the child to be born can be assessed from the strength of Jupiter and Sun for boys and Moon. Mars and Venus for girls. The final pointer would be the position of Saturn in odd or even signs when birth of boys or girls would take place respectively. Note to leave lagna from the odd signs. When Moon is posited in one of the male constellations, the ascendant being a male rasi with Jupiter in its trine or with like relation in amsa, conception takes place leading to the birth of a boy. When Moon is found to occupy female constellations and the female rasi happens to be the lagna or its navamsa with a female planet in trine to the lagna, birth of a girl should be expected. From adhana lagna Jupiter and Sun should be in odd rasis or navamsas or Jupiter with Moon should be in lagna in a Jupiter and Venus should be in a kendra to lagna being in trine or square to moon with malefics in 2, 3 and 6 and Mercury in 7 and 9 houses, or Mercury, Venus, Jupiter in - R.B.T. - 162 7,1,9 houses from lagna or Jupiter and Moon in 2 and 5, or Moon. Venus and Jupiter in 9, 5,1 houses for birth of boys. For births in Sukla Paksha, Janma Lagna will be the Moon Lagna at adhana while, in case of births in Krishna Paksha. Moon will be in the 7th from janma lagna. Depending on chandra kalas, the chandra rasi at birth will be rising or setting at adhana. According to Varahamihira, lagna is 2° 30' plus (Moon longitude -*-12) and that lagna should be the 9th dwadasamsa to Moon at conception for births in the dark fortnight. According to Sage Bhrigu, having known the date of birth, note: (a) The distance of Sun at sunrise from the last point of father’s Moon navamsa. (b) the distance of last point of Keth u’s navamsa at sunrise from the last point ot Venus in mother’s navamsa. (c) the distance of Moon’s constellation at sunrise from the longitude of all the planets that are related to her at that position and double them. (d) for each issue add 50'. (e) add all the four factors in a, b, c and d to the longitude of Sun at sunrise which gives the correct degree of Janma Lagna. In cases where parents charts are not available -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 163 (a) Determine the longitude of Sun at sunrise from the last point of the preceeding navamsa and double it. When Moon is aspected by, Rahu at sunrise, triple the above longitude, (b) add 50’ for each child in order, (t) add the above two and divide the sum by 3°20'. The balance would show the correct longitude of Janma Lagna from the first point of the navamsa in that rasi at birth. Convert the birth time to ghatis and vighatis. Multiply by 4 and divide by 9. The remainder indicates the janma nakshatra when counted from Aswini, Makha or Moola. Multiply the Ghatis and vighatis by 2 and add 5, 9 or 7 as the lagna is chara, sthira or dwiswabhava respectively. Multiply the sum by 4 and divide by 27. The quotient is the constellation preceeding the birth constellation when counted from Aswini or Chitra. The balance would be the longitude elapsed in the constellation at birth. As in the above, after multiplying by 2 add 5, 10, 15 and follow the same process till end. The quotient will be the constellation at birth from Aswani for births in the bright fortnight and from Chitra for births in the dark fortnight. After multiplying the ghatis and vighatis by 4, add the number of sign indicated when counted from Mesha to the rasi at birth and divide by 8. The quotient, if even, indicates the birth of a male child and if odd, the birth of a girl. - R.B.T. - 164 Divide the janana kala vighatis by 225 and note the remainder. The remainder falling between 1 to 15, 46 to 90, 151 to 225 indicates birth of a boy and 16 to 45 and 91 to 150 indicates birth of a girl. Multiply the birth ghatis by 4 and divide by 27: Find the constellation indicated by the remainder by counting from Aswini. The one so indicated or the 10th from it or the 10th again from it would be one of the three constellations of the Janana kala dasa lord. Multiply the birth ghatis by 4 and divide the vighatis by 15. Add both the results and, again divide by 12. The remainder is the pranapada rasi which indicates Janma Lagna or its trine. The remainder obtained in division by 15 when doubled shows the mean pranapada. Multiply the ghatis from sunrise till birth by 4 and divide vighatis by 15. Note the remainder. Add both the above and divide by 12. The remainder indicates the lagna at birth from Mesha or its trine. Multiply the remainder above noted by 2 and add the longitude of Sun in the rasi that day, ignoring the longitude of the rasi proper. This indicates the actual degree at time or birth in the rasi indicated above. Convert birth time ghatis and vighatis into vighatis and divide by 15. The quotient indicates the sign and degrees which, when counted from the Sun that day, gives the longitude of pranapada. If the, Sun is in chara rasi, take out the degrees - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 165 thereof from the sign in which he is placed. If it is in sthira or dwiswabhava rasis, take the 9th or 5th sign respectively from the sign in which Sun is posited plus the degrees in the said sign of Sun at birth ignoring the sign longitude. Divide the longitude of Moon at birth by 13° 20'. Convert the remainder into minutes and divide by 9. If the quotient, when divided by 13° 20', is more than 9, divide it again by 9 and note the remainder. The quotient thus arrived at would indicate the constellation when counted from Aswani, Makha or Moola. Note the number of the constellation. Multiply the number so obtained 1°-29' and add to the product the quotient obtained above by dividing the remainder in minutes by 9 and call this the accoutant of Moon. Note the longitudes of Sun and Lagna. Subtract Sun’s longitude from that of Lagna and divide the balance by 13" 20'. Add the above constant of Moon to the quetient and to the sum arrived at, add the Sun’s longitude. In case the resultant is more than 360, subtract 360 from Moon. The result indicates the birth degree. Kalidasa says that births take place in 6, 7 or 9 rasis from the position of Mandi in rasi of navamsa charts prepared for the given time of birth. Divide janana kala ghatis from sunrise by 2 and add the number of the constellation in which Sun is posited at the time of birth. The Sun indicate the constellation in which birth takel place. - R.B.T. - 166 Multiply the janana kala ghatis by 6 and add the days passed from the preceding sank.amana: Divide the total by 30. The quotient indicates the rasi at birth when counted from Sun at birth. The rasi of Sun at birth should not be included for the count. Birth rasi would be 5,7,9 Or 11 from Moon rasi, or 5,7,9 from the lord of Moon’s rasi or the 5th from him. This count would prove correct as well from Sun. It is an established fact that births are caused by Solar Lunar energy under the influence of the ruling planet of the week day and that human births take place only at specified times while, at other times, animals and other species are born. It is also the unanimous opinion of all the authorities that adhana lagna is the guiding factor for the destinies cf living beings. In view of the above, the auspicious times for coitus have been prescribed to secure maximum benfits. Birth, Water, Fire, Wind and Akasa,the five elements that are responsible for the composition of the human body have their own say in determining the destiny of lives that take birth in them. Their qualities are identical with the nature of planets that govern them. Prithvi or Earth is governed by Mercury. Vayu or wind is governed by Sarurn; Jala or water ia governed by Moon and Venus; Agni orTeja is governed by Sun and Mars; and lastly Akasa or ether is governed by Jupiter. These five elements or their tatwa, rotate in cyclic order with uniform and specific durations commencing from the time of sunrise on the week - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 167 days, presided by their governing dieties.Commencing from brithvi, whose ruler is Mercury, the tatwa starts on his week day. Wednesday and lasts for 6 minutes. This is followed by Jala tatwa which duration is doubled and this tatwa commences on Mondays and Fridays, the week days of the presiding dieties. Similarly Teja tatwa with a duration of 18 minutes starts on Sunday and Tuesdays. Vayu tatwa starts on Saturdays with the duration of 24 minutes and finally Absa on Thursdays with the duration of 30 minutes. Hence each rotation takes one and a half hours to be again followed in cyclic order, thus covering the 24 minutes of the time of the day, by making 16 equal rotations. The female planets, Moon and Venus, are responsible for the birth of female children in the duration of their tatwas white male children are born in the duration of other tatwas. Children so born exhibit the nature of the lords of the tatwas Karakatwas of these tatwas are the same as the karakatwas of their presiding planets. The inter-planetary relay birth with the help of the tatwas. The factors required are time of birth approximately. Week day, constellation on the day of birth, the rasi of birth if in chara, sthira or dwiswabhava and the sex of the child born. The chart in the preface would show the principle in working the system and this commences from the time of sunrise of the day of birth. - R.B.T. - 168 Constellations Weekdays Tatwa Time Sex Chara Sthira Swiswabhava Wednesday Prithvi 3 min male Krithika Mrigasira Punarvasu Uttara Chitra Visakha Uttarasadha Dhanisbta Poorvabhadra 3 min male Rohini Arudra , Pushyam Hasta Swati Anuradha Total 6 min Sravana Satabbisba Uttrabhadra Jala 3 min female Mrigasira Punarvasu Aslesha Chitra Visakha Jyeshta Dhanisata Poorva bhadrs Revati This tatwa rotates in order for 12 minutes and the constellations follow in the above said order. Each constellation is to be treated as lasting for a minute. On compiling the cyclic order for all the seven days of the week, and 24 hours for each day, it would be readily possible to locate the time of the birth desired. When an error is noticed, that is to say, when the five factors do not agree as stated earlier, the only possible method to rectify tbe time of birth is to resort to the principles of determination by locating the adhana lagna. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 169 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME I have taken up the delineation of the birth chart of the MATHEMATICS PRODIGYChjranjeevi VASUDEVAN. He is now a school boy of 9 years old, living in Perambur, Madras and is a wonder of wonders. He can be taken as the great RAMANUJAM re-born, with such high faculties in Mathematics, duly acknowledged and praised by many all over. The following Date of birth Time Day Place of Birth are his birth details : : 7/8-1-1981 : 4-5 AM 1ST; 3-56-8 AM LMT : Wednesday/Thursday : Madras 13°-4' N’ Latitude; 80°-17’ E. Longitude S.T. : Hours 11-5-42 Seconds V 23-40-4 VI 22-40-4 VII 18-52-33 VIII 17-40-4 IV 21-40-4 Nirayan Bhava Chart Balance in Moon period at birth 7 y-1 m-20 days Rahu 18-34-10 IX 18-40-4 III 18-40-4 Kc 18-34-10 Mo 13-49-4 Mar 12-43-U X 21-40-4 Mrrc28-34-13 Sun 23-58-24 II 17-40-4 . For 8-44-13 Yen 2-14-34 Lagnam 118-52-33 XU 22-40-4 16-5-56 16-21-46 XI 23-40-4 - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 170 Cusp Sign lord Cusp Sub lord | Kethu VII Mercury 1 Mars VIII Sun ID Mercury IX Kethu IV Jupiter X Jupiter V Mars XI Mars VI Saturn XII Saturn Planet Sublord Planet Sublord Sun Saturn Mars Rahu Jupiter Saturn Rahu Kethu Saturn Saturn Mercury Mars Moon Venus Rahu Venus Kethu Mercury In a nativity 3rd house stands for perception, learning and intellect, and the IXth house for reasoning and intuition, higher mind, transit that is rapid, prophetic awareness, higher brain power delving in to mysterious realms and attaining very unusual accomplishments. One should look at the IXth house to find out if there is BHAGY accumulated as a result of his poorvapunya. Here the IXth cusp Sub Lord is Ketu. It is in 2nd in the star of Moon in 2nd bhavam, in its own star and owns IXth. And Kethu is in the Sub of Mercury signifying II &amp; X. So Bhagyam is there evident and it will act through his brain power and VAKKU and bring him a great name and status. - R.B.T. - 171 Again in this birth chart, the Lagna Cusp Sub Lord is KETHU. KETHU is in II, one of material trinity (II, VI, X), and placed in star of Moon in II owning IX, a house presenting poorvapunya. The very fact Moon, the IXth owner placed in II in own star creates a healthy status, for Poorvapunyam to act in high beneficial manner and in as much as the planet Moon the llnd significator attains the star lord Ketu, Kethu, the Sub Lord of the Lagna sub and IXth cusp. Such a combination detailed above tells a birth as a result of high poorvapunya rinneled through llnd, which stands for VAKKU (vocal power) of the material dainty, llnd house stands for material prospects through his way of expression of matters of extrinsic value his ability to press and his VAKKU. IXth cusp Sub Lord is also Kethu. Kethu as already discussed is in the star of Moon in II owning IX, and the same Kethu signifies 11 &amp;X through its Sub Lord Mereury. As IX, the house of higher brain power and as it is imbibed naturally with the quality of rapidity, attain very unusual accomplishments with quick down pour of matters, when well connected to one of the houses of material trinity ie., II or VI or X. Here as llnd that stands for VAKKU is well connected to IXth he is able to give astonishingly quick mathematical answers which an ordinary person cannot dream to rise to that standard at all. The owner of the IXth of house is Moon and he is called Mathi, the mind. This Moon is in its own star in II, and in the sub of Jupiter in X another material house, owning V, the - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 172 house standing for intellect and intelligence (please note no planet tenants the stars of Jupiter). This combination tells that the boy is endowed with high intelligence and higher brain power to attain very unusual accomplishments. Mopn is usually very good if we find it in llnd bavam, promising a gifted tongue. If one makes a survey of all the planets, he may find that almost all are connected to IXth through llnd bhavam, a powerful benefic house. Let me discuss one by one, cusp-wise. 1st cusp Sub Lord Kethu is in llnd bhavam in the star of Moon in llnd owning IXth. The same Kethu is in the Sub of Mercury in II &amp; signifies X. llnd cusp Sub Lord Mars in II (no planet in Mars stars) in the star of Moon in II in its own star and owning IX. The same Mars is in the Sub of Rahu on the IXth cusp, duly signifying II &amp; XI (Rahu is in the sub of Kethu and the IXth cusp is also' formed in the Sub of Kethu. Hence Rahu is deemed to be on the IXth cusp and as no planet is tenanting its stars, Rahu acquires the IXth signification fully). Illrd cusp Sub Lord Mercury in II, in the star of Sun in II and this planet is well connected to IXth through Sub Lord Mars being placed in the star of Moon in II owning IX. IVth cusp Sub Lord Jupiter in the star of Moon in II owning IX and also signifying X &amp;V as no planet is in its stars and in V and the same Jupiter is in the Sub of Saturn signifying II, IX and X also as no planet is tenanting its stars. - R.B.T. - 173 Vth cusp Sub Lord Mars is well connected to II &amp; IX Please see the above discussion regarding llnd cusp), Vlth cusp Sub Lord Saturn in X (no planet in Saturn stars) in the star of Moon in II owning IX. Saturn is in the own Sub and so again signifies II &amp; IX, apart from X. Vllth cusp Sub Lord Mercury is in the star of Sun and so signifies II &amp; X and is in the Sub of Mars signifies II &amp; IX and also . Vlllth cusp Sub Lord-Sun in the star of Venus in I and so signifiesl, VII, &amp; XII, and the same Sun is in the Sub of Saturn and so signifies X, III, II, &amp; IX. IXth cusp Sub Lord is Kethu (as already discussed) and it is in the star of Moon in II in Thiruvonam and so Kethu signifes II &amp; IX. The same Kethu is in the star of Mercury in II, signifying II. Xth cusp Sub Lord is Jupiter is in the star of Moon in II owning IX, and so signifies II, IX, X and is in the Sub of Saturn signifying X, J I &amp; IX. Xlth cusp Sub Lord Mars is in II and in the star of Moon in II and no planet in Mars stars as such signifies H, I, VI &amp; IX, and also in the Sub of Rahu on the IXth cusp (no planet in Rahu stars) and signifies II &amp; XI (for details see discussion on llnd cusp.) XII cusp Sub Lord Saturn is in X and no planet tenanting its stars and Saturn is in the star of Moon in II owning IX and so - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 174 signifies II, IX &amp; X. Saturn is in the Sub of Saturn itself and so gets the signification of II, III, IX, &amp; X. On an overall assessment of the significations of these 12 cuspal Sub Lords we note that the Sub Lords are under star or sub connected to IX &amp; II, with better emphasis on the IInd, one of the material trinity and thus tells his higher brain power attaining very unusual accomplishment. Now he is under the major period of Mars from 27-9-1988 to 27-9-1995. Mars is a full significator of I, VI, II, &amp; IX through. Star Lord and under Sub Lord Rahu, signifies IX, II, &amp; XI (and also II &amp; IX as node Rahu represents Moon). So in this period he earns high name and status through his brain power. Period of Rahu is from 27-9-1995 and Rahu on the IXth cusp, having and planet in its stars, for VRISCHIKA lagna natives, is a matter debatable. - R.B.T. - 175 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME Case Study On 26th January 1990, Pune Municipal Corporation felicited among other persons of merit, one twelve year girl Kum Prachi &gt;Anil Sardeshmukh, for swimming the distance of 36 K .M. from Dharmatar to Gateway of India on 18th January 1990 in 11 hrs. 40 minutes. She is the first girl from Pune to, swim in the sea. Naturally, I was interested in her birth horoscope which is produced below A-Cuspal Positions : Cusp Sing lord Star lord Sub lord SubSub lord 1 3-29°,:; 28-13" Moon Mer Saturn Rahu 1 4-27°..28-21" Sun Sun Moon Mars III 5-27°..28-21" Mer Mars Gum Moon IV 6-29°-28'-21" Venus Gum Moon Moon V 8-00P-28’-2V" Gum Ketu Ketu Gum VI 9-00°-28’-2T” Saturn Sun Rahu Ketu VII 9-29°-28'-13° Saturn Mars Saturn Rahu VIII 10-27 e -28'-21° Saturn Gum Venus Rahu IX 11-27°-28'-21° Gum Budha Budha Moon X 0-29°-28'-21" Mars Sun Rahu Rahu XI 3-00-28'-21" Moon Gum Moon Venus XII 2-04°-06'-13" Budha Mars Venus Sani - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 176 K 27-28-21 Kethu 24-45 X 29-28-21 Mar 22-29 Moon 28-40 XI0-28-21 Jup441 Ven 15-52 XII10-28-21 VIII 27-28-21 Date of Birth 10-7-1977 Lattitude of the Place of Birth Sun 23-52 Sat 26-33 I 29-28-13 VII 29-28-13 VI0-28-21 18-39 (N) Lon. 72-33 (E) Birth Time 6-43 am Mercury 21-11 II 27-28-21 VO-28-21 Nep. (R) 20-00 IV 29-28-51 lira 14-31 Pluto20-34 Ra 24-45 11127-28-21 Balance Mars Mahadasa at the time of Birth 4-02-12 (Yrs. Months Days) B-Planetary Positions:- |p/anef Significations 1. Sun 3-23°-52' Moon Budha Mars Keth 1,2,3,7,11,12 2. Moon 1 -28"-40' Venus Mars Sani Venu 1,5,10,12 3. Mars 1-22°-29' Venus Moon Venus Budh 1,2,5, 6, 10,12 4. Budha 4-21°-11' Sun Venus Guru Venu 1.3,4,8.11 5. Jupiter 2-04°-41' Budha Rahu Venus Budh 4,5,6,8,9,10, 11 6. Venus 2-15°-52’ Budha Rahu Venus Moon 2,4, 6, 11 7. Saturn 3-26°-33' Moon Budha Guru Venu 1,3,6,7,8,10,11,12 8. Rahu 5-24M5' Budha Mars Rahu Sani 1,2,3,8,9,10,11 9. Kethu 11-24M5' Guru Budha Rahu Sani 1,3,4,5,8,19,11 10. Uranus 6-14°-31’ Venus Rahu Kethu Venu 2,3,10 11. Neptune 7-20°05’ Mars Budha Venus Mars 1.3,4,11 12. Pluto 5-20°-34 Budha Moon Venus Venu 1,2,9,10,12 Birth R.P - Moon , Mars, Budha, Sani, Rahu and Kethu. Status of the horoscope : Practically all planets are in the constellations, whose lord’s are Improving houses. Moreover, - R.B.T. - 177 majority of them signify “Labha” which means desire, fulfilment. Hence, the status of the horoscope is excellent. Let us therefore now know about her swimming fete. Swimming Fate-The relevant houses to know about this will be as follows: Subsublord of the Hse. III- House of Courage, attitude etc. ... Moon IV- House of Education, Training.etc., ... Moon V- House of Sports, Arts. Hobbies etc. ... Guru IX-House of Fame, Providential help etc. ... Moon Xl-Type of labha ... Venus Let us examine these houses by proper analysis to arrive at the right conclusions: Astrological Analysis Astrological Conclusion : Houses III, IV, &amp; IX 1. Subsublord Moon exalted and in Sthir Rasi. 2. Moon conjuct Mars i.e. a Rajayoga in X Hse. 3. Moon conjuct IX cusp Pars Fortuna and Guru in XI. 4. Moon has 120° aspect with III cusp and is in trine with Rahu the Mahadasa lord at present. 5. Moon has 150° aspect with IV cusp. 6. Moon has 180” aspect with V cusp. 7. Moon has 60" aspect with IX cusp. 8. Moon is aspected by the sea lord Neptune. 9. Moon’s four fold significations i) Moon's own significations 10. 12 &amp; 1. ii) Moon's stariord Mars significations 10 iii) Moon's sublord Sani significations 12,6.7, 8 iv) Moon's subsublord-Venus signification 11,4 10. Moon and Mars Nakshatra Parivarthani (Exchange) 1) It denotes water sports and steady progress in them under the general guidence of the mother teacher etc. 2) It denotes that the attiude is not of wishful thinking but of active participation resulting in grand swimming career. 3) Moon significator of "Labha" and hence alround progress. 4) It shows perfect “Parakram” 5) It shows challengers duiing training period and the expertise of the coach to master them. 6) Moon-Mars-Guru combine will always score over the opposition in sports. 7) This is conducive for Name, Fame and Glory. 8) Neptune endows subtle swimming techniques. 9) Significations Results i) Swimming career, in the country and abroad. Ii) Swimming ranks top for the native. iii) impediments in the career. iv) Grand success in spite of any odds. 10) Bond of friendship between Moon and Mars strengthens the favourable atmosphere -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 178 House-V 1) Subsublord Guru in .Gemini conjuct Pars Fortuna in “Labh" 2) Guru has 176°aspect with V cusp. Guru is V cusplord. Guruji K.S.K. has stated at the bottom of page 198 of the K.P Reader-ll ‘bad aspects to Vth cusp from the lord of V or VIII or XII, show gains in speculation') 3) Guru in the same sign with the IV lord Venus 4 ) Guru’s four fold signification i) Guru's own signification-11,5,9 ii) Guru's starlord Mars significations 10 iii) Guru's sublord Venus significations 11,4 iv) Guru's subsublord Budha signification 1.3,11 House XI 1) Subsublord Venus in a friendly Sign Gemini 2) Venus has a vigintile aspect with the XI cusp 3) Venus's four fold of signification i) Venus's significations 11,4 ii) Venus starlord Rahu's significations 2 iii) Venus's sublord Venus significations 11.4 iv) Venus's subsublord Moon significations 10, 12 1) High education and training in swimming leading. 2) The principle enunciated by our 'Guruji. mutatis mutartdis" applies in this case as well. So hurdles in swimming career are removed by seatwic guru 3) Education and the art of swimming go hand in hand without encroaching on each other. Signification results i) Mastery in the art of swimming and achieving a name ii) High values placed on swimming iii) Endows succes in happy talented manner iv) achievement of success in a talented manner 1) Smooth sailing Labha 2) Atmosphere conducive for general success Significations Result i) sure success in general and in education in particular. ii) Family atmosphere conucive for alround success iii) Nn hurdles in the progress iv) Fulfilment of desire in swimming career Thus the above analysis of the III, IV, V, IX and XI clearely bring out her steady progress in the swimming field. Future prospects: Present Rahu Mahadasa as well as next Guru Mahadasa promise success to the career chosen by the native. R.B.T. 179 To sum up, but for the Saturn’s impediments and a quincux aspect of the Moon with the IV cusp, the cuspal and planetary positions in the horoscope of Kum. Prachi Sardeshmukh are most helpful for swimming, which she has started right from her childhood i.e. with uic start of the r\ahu iviahadasa coiVni.eriCu-g from \ w ■ oo ■. Mahadasa lord Rahu is in Mars Star signifying X. Mars is conjunct Moon and in trine with Rahu, all conducive for swimming. So wishing her “Best of Luck”, I now turn to the next case study. Case Study (twins have same sublord) Recently, I have come across a case of twins born in Nigeria. The particulars are as follows Native “X” Native “Y” Birth Time -16-47 Nigerian Std. Birth Time -16-50 Nigerian Std. Time fime i.e. 15.47.G.M.T. or2l-17 i.e., 15-50 GMT., or I.S.T. 21-201ST. Nirayan House Division Birth Horoscope of “X” Kethu 28°-54’-02" Mars 26°27'-42" Venus 25°36'-42" VIIIOS^'-SS" H03 o 50’-17" H04°15'-35" 05°-24’-56" IX-05°06'-59" X-06°06'-59" IX-OS^'-SS" Sun 08°57'-16" Budha14°50'-02" Jupiter 17°29'-14" Birth Date - 23rd May 1977 XII 04°15 , -35" Moon 09 o 57'-52" Birth Place Saturn 18 o 04'-38" Longitude-8-20' (E) Geographical 103°50’-17” Latitude 9°38’(N) Geographical Latitude 9°34’ (N) VI 06°-06 , -59" III05°19'-14" imMS'-SS" Pluto 21 °-33M1" Neptune (R) Uranus (R) Rahu 28°.54’-02" 21 Ml’-21" 15°-22M1" Y. M. D. Balance of Sani Mahadasa at the time of birth -9.06-26 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 180 Both the natives have same planetary positions and hence same significations also as, follows: A-Planetary Positions:- Planet Sign lord Star lord Sub lord Sub sublord Significations (1) Sun 01-08°-57'-16" Venus Sun Venus Guru 1.4,10 (2) Moon 03-19°-57'-52” Moon Sani Venus Budha 6.7,12 (3) Mars II-26° -27’-41 “ Guru Budha Guru Sani 2,3,4,8,9,11 (4) Budha 00-14°-50'-02" Mars Venus Venus Sani 2,3,8,9,10,11 (5) Guru 01-17°-29'-14" Venus Moon Sani Rahu 2,4,5,6,8,10,11 (6) Venus 11-25°-36 , -42" Guru Budha Rahu Venus 2,3,8,9,10,11 (7) Sani 03-18°-04'-38" Moon Budha Budha Guru 2,6,7,9,11,12 (8) Rahu 05-28°-54'-02" Budha Mars Sani Venus 2,3,4,8,9,11 (9) Kethu 11-28°-54'-02" Guru Budha Sani Venus 2,4,5,6,8,9,10,11 10) Uranu 06-15°-22'-4l” Venus Rahu Venus Venus 2,3,9 11) Neptun 07-21 °-41 '-21" Mars Budha Sun Rahu 2,4,9.10,11 12) Phuto 05-21 °-33'-41" Budha Moon Venus Rahu 2,8,12 Planetary positions being the same, are incapable of bringing out the distinguishing factors between the twin brothers. Hence cuspal positions are of help, which are detailed below along with their co-rulers. - R.B.T. - 181 NATIVE “X” Cusp Sign lord Star lord Sublord SubSublord 1 4-03°-50‘-17" Sun Kethu Moon Rahu II 5-03°-48’-39" Budha Rahu Sani Venus III 6-05 o -i9'-i4" Venus Mars Sun Budha IV 7-06°-06’-59" Mars Sani Budha Sun V 8-05°-24'-56" Guru Kethu Mars Venus VI 9-04°-i5'-35" Sani Sun Sani Moon VII 10-03°-50' -17" Sani Mars Venus Guru VIII 11-03°-48'-39" Guru Sani Sani Budha IX 00-05°-19'-14" Mars Kethu Mars Kethu X 01-06°-06'-59” Venus Sun Budha Mars XI 02-05°-24'-56" Budha Mars Sun Kethu XII 03-14°-15'-35" Moon Sani Sani Sani NATIVE “Y” Cusp Sign lord Star lord Sublord SubSublord 1 4-04°-12*-53" Sun Kethu Moon Budha II 5-04°-35'-52" Budha Ravi Sani Rahu III 6-06°-02'-02" Venus Mars Moon Sani IV 7-04°-35'-52" Mars Sani Sani Moon V 8-06°-06'-29" Guru Kethu Rahu Guru VI 9-04°-57’-47” Sani Sun Sani Guru VII 11-04°-21' -53" Sani Mars Venus Sani VIII 11-04°-35'-52” Guru Sani Sani Moon IX 00-06°-02'-02" Mars Kethu Rahu Guru X 01 -04°-35'-52” Venus Sun Sani Rahu XI 02-06°-06'-29” Budha Mars Moon Sani XII 03-04°-57'-47" Moon Sani Sani Rahu It will be seen from the above that the cusps I,II,VI,VII, VIII and XII have the same sublord for both the native “X” and “Y”. So, in respect of these twin brothers, the distinguishing features in respect of these six house matters cannot be ascertained, on the basis of Sublord only. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 182 Under the circumstances, there is no other alternative than to seek the subsublords, then we do this, a clear picture emerges and the fourfold significations delineate the havaphala. Birth R.P.- Sun, Moon, Guru, Venus and Kethu. Status of the horoscope :-Moon, Budha and Rahu are occupying Pushya.Bharani and Chitra constellations, whose lords are posited in “Trik" i.e., Papasthanas. If, however, we make a deeper probe by scrutinising them further, we find that the Saturn,Venus and Mars are posited in Aashlesha and Revati constellations, lord of which in turn, posited in “Bhagyasthan" relatively a good house. Accordingly, we’can take the status of the horoscope as “good” Let us now know about their distinguishing features. I “X” stout and “Y” thin subsublords of the “Lagna", will enable us to know about this. Astrological Analysis 1) a) Lagna subsublord of "X" is Rahu cojunct Pluto in earthy sign "Virgo" aspected by Guru in X house and by Sani, Venus, Mars and Kethu in watery signs b) Lagna Subsublord of "Y" is Budha in Mesha aspected by retrograde Uranus in the airy sign libra and Sani in XII. 2) "X" uses glasses but “Y’does not -Subsublords of II and XII houses will throw light on this phenomenon. Astrological Analysis I) a) II and XII subsublords of "X" are Venus and Sani respectively b) Rahu is the Subsublord of the II and XII houses of Y. duly aspected by well placed Guru conjuct "Lagnesh" Sun 3) “Y” climbed the African elephant's trunk, while “X” declined to do so. Astrological Analysis. II) a) III House subsublord of "X" is Budha in the constellation of "Bharani", lord of which is in VIII i e the house of defeat. Astrological conclusion a) Occupation of "Trik" by subsublord without any redeeming factor give eye defect to “X". b) Benefic aspect saves eyes Subsublords of the house of courage i.e III can explain this difference Astrological conclusion a) House of defeat makes "X" withdraw from the elephant. Astrological conclusion 1) a) The effect of earthy and watery signs combined with Guru has been in the form of stoutness. b) Uranus and Sani aspects make &gt;" thin. b) III House subsublord of *Y* is Sam in b) Uranus is famous springing surprises the Constellation "Ashlesha", whose who enables “Y” to do trunk climbing lord Budha is aspected by Uranus from fete, the house of courage. 4) What are the educational prospects and in which subject? T ne suDsuDiora ot the IV cusp can ten aDout tnis. Astrological Analysis. I) IV subsublord of “X" is Dhanvantari “Ravi” in own constellation "Krittika" aspected by watery Neptune in the medical sign Scorpio. ii) The fourfold Significations of the Sun. n) Sun’s own SignificationslO.1,4. o) Sun's sublord Sun Significations 10.1,4 p) Sun's sublord Venus Significations 8.3.10.2 q) Sun's subsublord Guru Significations 2.4.6 'IV cusp subsublord of "Y" is Moon in the constellation “Pushya" conjunct Sani in XII. II) Moon's fourlord signification r) Moon's own Significations 12,6 s) Moon's starlord Sani Significations 12,6,7,2.9 t) Moon's sublord Venus Significations 8.3.10.2 u) Moon's subsublord Budha Significations 9.2.11.3 Astrological conclusion I) ‘X* may prefer education in medicines. ii) Significations results. n) regular studies o) Subject likely “medicines’ p) Difficulties but success q) Ultimate success i) "Y" may prefer education in Botany or so. II) Significations results. r) Irregularity in studies s) Subject Botany or so f) difficulties and success, u) Satisfactory Completion of the course. In short, each of these twin brothers stands by himself and are poles apart which is clearly brought out by the subsublord of the cuspal points and the planets themselves. Let us now turn to the next case study. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 184 Case Study (plant Librarian) There may be many plant growers, but the life which prof. (Smt) Sulochana Ogale has brought to the mpltistories R.C.C. jungles in Pune is of unique nature as will be known from the interviews taken by English and Marathi Press. Astrological studies about this nativity will be therefore equally interesting and adding to our astrological knowledge. Her horoscope is therefore produced below. Ill 22"-29’-38" 22*-22’-20" IV 23"-08'-03” LraW-22'-33” Mar I6*-22’-H" V 19"44’42" Sun 01M)0’-56" VI 14’-59’-36” Rah l9”-57’-Jr Bu 25“-24’-0r’ II 17*-36’-13" Saturn 05--i8 , -i6" Date of Birth 15-6-1943 (Friday) Time of Birth 9.55 p.m. Place of Birth Shirala (Dist. Sangil) Lon. 74°-01" (E) Geocentric Lat 16--6V(N) Plu01”-39'-2T’ Mn IO--2r-33” vii ir- 22 ’-ir 112--2T-II" VIII l7’-36’-!3” Ket 19°-S7’-54" XII l4"-59'-36" XI 19*—14*—12‘~ X 23"-08’-03” Ne09'-I6'-Il” Gr20"-28’-38” IX 22”-29'-38" Balance of Saturn Mahadasa of birth 02 ys-00 ms-OOds. A-Cuspal Positions : Cusp Sign lord Star lord Sublord SubSublord 1 9-12°-22'-ir Sani Moon Rahu Guru II 10-17°-36 , -13" Sani Rahu Sun Rahu Ml ii-22°-29'-39" Q.jm B'.'d h 2 Voc" Ra h, j IV 0-23°-08’-03" Mars Venus Saturn Moon V 1-19°-44’-42" Venus Moon Budha Guru VI 2-14°-59‘-36" Budha Rahu Kethu Sani VII 3-12°-22'-11" Moon Sani Mars Guru VIII 4-17°-36'-13” Sun Venus Mars Sani IX 5-22°-29'-38" Budha Moon Venus Budha X 6-23°-08'-03" Venus Guru Sani Moon XI 7-19°-44'-42” Mars Budha Venus Sun XII 8-14°-59'-36" Guru Venus Venus Sani B-Planetary Positions:- Planet Significations (1) Sun 1-01 o -00'-56" Budha Mars Budhc Mars 4,5,8,11,12 (2) Moon 3-10°-21'-33" Moon Sani Sun Sun 1.2,67 (3) Mars 1 -16°-2T -33" Venus Moon Sani Kethu 4,6,7,8,11,12 (4) Budha 2-25 &lt;&gt; -24'-0r' Budha Guru Budhc Guru 3,6,8,9,12 (5) Guru 5-20 o -28'-38" Budha Moon Venus Venus 1,3,5,6,7,8,12 (6) Venus 0-22 o -22'-20" Mars Venus Sani Budha 3,5,10 (7) Satur 10-05°-57' -54" Sani Mars Sun Sani 1,2,4,8,11 (8) Rahu 2-19°-57'-54" Budha Rahu Mars Moon 6,9.12 (9) Kethu 8-19 0 -57’-54" Guru Venus Rahu Moon 1,3,5,6,8,10,12 10) Uranus 1-00°-22'-33" Venus Sun Rahu Budha 4.5,8.11 11) Neptune 5-01°-46’-ir Budha Sun Venus Budha 3,5,8, 12) PhutO 3-01 °-39'-27" Moon Guru Rahu Guru 1,3,6,8,12 13) 10-21°-42'-48" Sam Guru Guru Rahu -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 186 Birth R.P.-sun, Moon, Venus, Sani, Rahu, Kethu (agent of Guru) Status of the Horoscope Only Budha and Pluto are in Punarvasu constellation, whose lord Guru is in VII. If, however, we probe deeper, Guru will be found in “Hasf'constellation, the lord of which is in VI, lording VII House. Thus all planets will be found to signify either improving Houses or good houses. Natural and functional malefics Sun, Sani, Uranus signify “Labha". Status of this horoscope therefore will be found “good”. Health, Hobbies and married life :-The concerned houses are l,V and VII. The subsublord of these Houses is Guru. So, let us examine these houses. Astrological Analysis 1. Guru though in VIII is conjunct 'Bhagya; cusp. 2. Guru makes trine aspects with I and V while making a near Quintile aspect with the VII cusp. 3. Guru's four lord significations i) Guru's own significations-8,3,12,1.5 (Residential strength is for IX and not VIII) ii) Guru's starlord Moon's significations 6.7 iii) Guru's sub and sub sub Venus’s significations 3,5,10 Astrological conclusion 1 Guru will predominantly give the results of Bhagya rather than of the House of difficult ies-VIII. 2 There can be smooth sailing in these departments of life, Significations results i) a) Generally good health. b) Fame in the matters of hobbies. c) Married life happy. ii) a) Sickness sometimes b) Service in educational institution c) Fononess for herbs, plants etc. d) Wide range pf plants i.e.. plant library iii) Regularity, perseverence and achievements in a happy manner. It is worth noting that she has “Vyaghat" Yoga (Sun+Moon) which is taken by some astrologers under traditional astrology as marring education and or married life. Nothing of the kind and hence K.P. stands in a better position as for as astrological interpretations are concerned. - R.B.T. - 187 To sum up, astrologically Prof. Sulochana Ogale is destined to be a plant librarian, as she is known to Pune city today. Let us now turn to a next case study. Case Study One lady had put a question to me about her husband. I judged this issue in my class at Dadar, Bombay in the presence of my students. That horary chart is dealt below: Query Is my husband, then working in the Navy of the I.P.K.F. Lanka, who is missing since August. 1987 alive? Place of judgement Sherrphal Jyotirvidya Mandir, Dadar (W), Bombay 400028. Longitude-72-51'(E) Geographical latitude-19-1’(N) Geocentric latitude-18-54’ (N) Ml 10"-08'-25" 1 1?'-I6'-I0" II 16“-29'-56” Gu 07"-22'45” III ll*-53'-22" XI 06"-02'-35" Sun 0l"-J2'-27” Horary No. 108 (Between 1 &amp; 2193) Date of Judgement : 14th Feb. 1990 Wednesday Time of Judgement : 8-29 A.M. K.P. Ayanamsa : 23°-36'-57” VI 07"-17’-3l" Ketliu 22"-30'-38" Rah 22“-30'-38” Bud W-ir-26" X 07"-0r-3r V 06"-02’-35” Ven 27“-57'-44” Sat 27"-01'-t5” Nep 19-58'-15" Mar |7*-39'-21" I ra l4"-33’-22" IX ll“-53’-22" Mil l6'-29’-56” VII I7”-I6’- 40" Plu 24"4)8' VIIO-08--25" 2l“-82'-52" Balance Moon mahadasa 01 yr. 04 months 06 days. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 188 A -Cuspal Positions : _ Cusp _ Sign lord Star lord Sublord Sub Sublord 1 0-17°-16'-40" Mars Venus Moon Venus II 1-16°-29'-56" Venus Moon Sani , Venus in 2-11°-53’-22" Budha Pah.j Sani Mars IV 3-07°-ir-31" Moon Sani Budha Sani V 4-06°-02'-35’' Sun Kethu Rahu Gum VI 5-10°-08'-25" Budha Moon Moon Mars VII 6-17°-16' -40" Mars Sani Gum Rahu VIII 7-16°-29'-56" Gum Kethu Budha Venus K 8-ir-53'-22" Gum Kethu Budha Venus X 9-07°-17*-31" Sani Sun Ketu Mars X 10-06°-02'-35" Sani Mars Moon Sani XII 11-10°-08'-25" Gum Sani Venus Budha B-Planetary Positions:- Planet Significations 1) Sun 10-01°-32'-27" Sani Mars Budha Gum 1,5,8,9.10 2) Moon 05-21 o -32'-52" Budha Moon Venus Rahu 4,6,12 3) Mars08-17®-39' -21 “ Gum Venus Mars Sani 1,2,3,4,7,8,9,12 4) Budha 09-09°-14'-26 M Sani Sun Venus Sani 3,4,5,6,10 5) Gum(R) 02-07°-22 , -45' Budha Rahu Rahu Sani 2,7,9,10,11,12 6) Venus 08-27°-57'-44" Gum Sun Moon Sani 2,3,5,7,9,10 7) Sani 08-27°-01'-45" Gum Sun Sun Sani 3,5,6,9,10,11 8) Rahu 09-22°-30'-38" Sani Moon Venus Budha 3,4,6,9,10,11 9) Kethu 03-22°-30'-38" Moon Budha Moon Rahu 3,4,6,10,12 10) Uran 08-14°-33'-22" Gum Venus Venus Gum 2.3.7,9 11) Neptu 08-19°-58'-15” Gum Venus Rahu Moon 2,3,7,9 12) Pluto 06-24°-08'-00" Venus Gum Budha Budha 1.2,7,9,12 -R.R T - 189 Moon Position : Moon is in VI and aspecting the XII, thereby showing the anxiety of the querente about her husband, as the question purports to do. Moon being in conformity with the question under consideration, we can take the horary chart for judgement. Status of the horary chart ;1) Venus though the ascendant lord of the husband is also the subsublord of his VIII and hence a potential threat to life looms. 2) Saturn though a Rajayog karak to husband is the subsublord of the Badhak and hence becomes worst. 3) The rapt conjunction between Venus and Saturn in the III house to the husband i.e. a secondary "Aayusthan” does not augur well for longevity. Rule: Our Guruji K.S.K. has given a rule in the K.R Reader VI page 160 for dealing with such questions as follows: “Take that house which represents the reladonship.If the sublord of the cusp is in the constellation of the planet who is the significator of badhak and Marak sthanas, boldly declare that he is dead. If the sublord of the cusp of the house representing the relative is in the constellation of the lord of that house or. the significators of the house representing that relation he is alive....’’ This rule mutatis mutandis, can apply to the subsublord also. So let us see the fourfold significations of the Subsublord of the ascendant of the husband i.e. VII dlisp, who is Budha. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 190 Fourfold significations of Budha Signification results. 1) Budha's own significations-9, 3, 6 1) (I e Husband's 3,9 and 12 houses.) 2) Budha's starla**) Sun's significations 10, 2) S. (i.e. Husband's 4 and 11 houses.) 3) Budha s sublord Venus s signifies- 3) tions-9,7, 2. (i.e. Husband's 3,1.8. houses) 4) Budha's subsublord Guru's 4) significations 2, 9, 12. (i.e. Husband's 8,3.6 Houses) Let us try to know the cause of death. At the above mentioned page 106 Guruji K. S. K. has indicated the following causes. This significator in 1) Watery sign.drowning. 2)FierySign.injuries. 3) Earthy sign.natural end. 4) Airy sign.No mention’is made. In the present case, Budha is in Uttarashada whose lord Sun is in Acquarius an airy sign. As Guruji K.S. K. has not mentioned airy sign while giving the above rule, now we have to find ourselves the cause thereof. Sun denotes fire and airy sign denotes its communication that is firing. So, I take that the husband must have succumbed to gun shots. This is the prediction in toto as it is wholly based on astrological analysis and conclusions without having any known facts. Since the incumbent has not returned even till today it lends support to the above prediction. Hazards abroad. 11th house Is Badhak hence death, while travelling in vehicle (IV) Life and death struggle. Tragic end in the battle (III) - R.B.T. - 191 Principle available from the case studies The sublord has limitations. The subsubiora Drings out tne hidden causes. Facts being known, this is not the prediction. But the subsublord is a good pointer to actualities. This embodies known facts as well as prediction. The subsublord explains better. This embodies known facts, which are better explained with the help of subsublord. This is purely a prediction based on the subsublord and is confirmed from the facts known so far. GOOD LUCK - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 192 if (typeof archive_analytics !== 'undefined') { archive_analytics.send_pageview_on_load(archive_analytics); archive_analytics.process_url_events(location); var vs = archive_analytics.get_data_packets(); for (var i in vs) { if (!vs[i]) { vs[i] = {}; } vs[i]['cache_bust']=Math.random(); vs[i]['server_ms']=102; vs[i]['server_name']="www15.us.archive.org"; } } document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() { if (typeof archive_analytics !== 'undefined') archive_analytics.create_tracking_image('in_page_executes'); }); 