ASTRO SECRETS &amp; KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI Edited by : S/o. Sothida Mannan, Jyotish Marthand (Late) Prof. K.S. KRISHNAMURTI This book Astro Secrets and Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Part IV has been published with many authors articles on Rectification of birth time. Students of Astrology following the System: Krishnamurti Padhdhati which has been handed over to us by ourGuruji Jyothish Marthand, Sothida Mannan Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti has been verified earlier, with many horoscopes for rectifying birth time as the querists were not sure about the correctness of birth time. They have given many examples with the method of calculating, birth in various places to arrive at the correct chart and offer results clearly to the pinpoint and satisfy the Querist. Articles selection of muhurtham as per sub lords are written, explaining how to choose favourable days, stars, lagnas, subs for any chart to start any work to buy lands jewels to start business, to join service etc. which are really a boon for those who read them. Moreover different methods of Dasas, Bukthis are also explained in length i.e. Vimshodari Dasa, Astothari Dasa system Kalachaktra Dasa system, Lagna Dasa system etc. VII Articles on Nakshathra Ganitham, timing of marriage etc are also dealt with in length. If the readers go through these articles written in simple, lucid manners it can be understood easily and implement for predicting purposes without any doubt. It is really worth investing and possessing this book as a treasure in your book collection and professional works. I pray the Almighty Lord Uchchishta Maha Ganapathy to bless the Editor and Publisher of this book K. Subramaniam, S/o. Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti for a Healthy long, peaceful life for many more years so that he can publish many more books on different heads and help K.P. followers &amp; readers. Best of Luck. ARUDHRA RECTIFICATION METHOD Birth Time and its Exact Meaning Before we start to cast a horoscope, we must be able to ascertain the correct time of birth. Generally, no birth is recorded correctly with the particulars to Hour, minute and second. No two watches agree, the birth time is noted with the help of a wrist watch or the wall clock in Hospitals and many of them do not show correct time! Then what is the remedy? The rectification method, in K.P. System, gives you a helping hand. First of all we should know what is a birth time. As soon as the child is separated from the mother, with the umbilical chord still connecting the two, the nose, ear, mouth of the child, are cleared by cotton, and now the umbilical chord is severed, the child is denied of oxidized blood, its gets a suffocation, and the child cries for its life! The air enters its mouth, fills up the lungs with air, and the sudden rush of air gives a kick to the diaphragm below, and it starts functioning till the end of life!! Hence, by its first cry; the child takes oxygen (Pranan) and announces to the world that it is an independent soul and does not need the help of the mother any more and can like on any goates or cow’s milk. Till the child cries, it is the part and parcel of the mother, just like any other limb of hers and -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 1 now, it is an individual soul and life. This moment of getting its life, is the right time of the birth of the child. How many of us are aware of this and how many of the Doctors and nurses record such correct timings! After separation from the mother, the will take five or ten minutes child to cry. Sometime, the child will forget to cry, and the doctors give a beating to the child and make it cry, otherwise, it will die! And one good friend, a doctor, asked me about the caesarian birth, and what time should be taken as the birth time, where the operation lasts for some hours. I told him it is as usual as the mother gets her labour pain for many hours, and whatever may be the process, the first cry of the child should be recknoned as the correct time of birth!! The doctor again, interrupted me, and said that could it not be possible, to make a child bom at an auspicious moment by a caesarian birth? I told the doctor what will happen if a child forgets to cry at all? And how do the doctors know as to when will the child cry and how long the surgery will take place? And in K.P. System, even 30 or 40 seconds of difference in birth times, will give a wide difference, in their life! Therefore, it is quite essential that all birth time is rectified by applying K.P. method, a unique technique of rectification. The ruling planets at the time of casting a horoscope, the right clue, to ascertain the birth time gives. How? To-day it is 22nd March 1984, and you are getting a horoscope born at 7.00 a.m. on 10.5.1948 at Tanjore for casting. It is ‘ - R.B.T. - 2 10.30 a.m. now, at Madras. The ruling planets are hereunder Day Lord Thursday.JUP Moon sign &amp; Star Lord (Anusham in Scorpio sign) . Mars-Sat Asc sign star lord (Rohini in TAURUS)... VEN-Moon These planets should be inserted into the lagna to be cast for 10.5.1984 at 7.00 a.m. If you insert these planets this will give (he right time of birth as noted below &gt; Sign lord, Star lord Sub lord, Sub, Sub lord VEN...MOON...MARS...JUP (Saturn omitted as it is retograde to day) i.e. TARUS11 °16” 23”) This is the nirayana lagna cusp of the horoscope. Add Ayanamsa of 1948 to the lagna cusp and work out the corresponding sayana houses from the table of houses and also the Sidereal time. The difference of time between sidereal time (given for 5.30 A.M. in the ephemeris for 10.5.1948) and the sidereal time of birth added to 5.30 A.M. is the correct time of birth. Note : The process of 10 sec correction per hour and L.M.T. should be employed, as per procedure) - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 3 RECTIFICATION OF BIRTH TIME When one is doubtful about his exact time of birth, but says that it may be around 15 minutes this way or that is there any method by which one can find out the exact moment of birth? Answer: I shall give some of the methods which are available. How far you can rely on them, is left entirely to you, to the readers and to the research scholars. (1) Convert the approximate time of birth given in I.S.T. to Vighatis after Sunrise. (Sunrise will be given in L.M.T. convert to I.S.T.). Multiply by 4 and divide by 9. The remainder is the number of the star counted from Aswini, Makham or Moolam. Suppose Sun rises at 6 A.M. Birth is at 8 A M. That is, the birth took place 2 hours after Sunrise. 1 Day = 60 Ghatis = 3600 Vighatis 1 Hour = 2y z Ghatis = 150 Vighatis 1 Ghatis = 24" Min. = 60 Vighatis 1 Minute = 2 Vighatis 1 Vighatis = 24 Seconds If the birth is 2 hours after Sunrise then it means it is 5 Ghatis=300 Vighatis. Multiply by 4 and divide by 9 . Then 300x4 - 1200 =133 2 “9- = ~9 133 9 - R.B.T. - 4 Remainder is 3. It means that Moon at the time of birth should be in the nakshathra which is the 3rd from Aswini or Makham or Moolam i.e., it may be Karthikai or Uthrapalguni or Uthrashada. But, suppose the star is Chithra, then one is to find out that Vighati, next to the number of Vighatis given by consultant. He mentioned 8 a.m. =300 Vighatis after sunrise. So you should add or subtract 1 Vighatis or 2 or and so on till you get the remainder 5 which shows the three stars Mrigasirisha, Chithra and Dhanishta. Therefore if one gets 305 Vighatis or 296 Vighatis the remainder after multiply by 4 and dividing by 9 will be only 5. But the person says that it may err to a maximum of fifteen minutes either way. Then find how many Vjghatis will yield the same result. The following Vighatis will give the remainder 5. 278; 287; 296; 305; 314; 323; 332; 341 and so on. 278 Vighatis is after 7.45 A.M. and 241 Vighatis is before 8.15 A.M. Which will you give? (2) Another method mentioned is as under- Note where Mand i was at the time of birth. The lagna sign will be either 5 or 7 or 9 or 1 when counted from the -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 5 sign occupied by Mandi-(Then alternatives are given-either to Moon or lagna, either in rasi or navamsa). If Mandi and Lagna are to be in 1,5,7 or 9 the consultant asks, why then the same author gives the results of Mandi occupying any house from lagna, i.e., the first, second, third, fourth etc., up to 12. How to reconcile? If the sign is to be either 5 or 9, (for example) it can be useful to find the lagna, correct to 30°. If navamsa is taken, the position of Lagna is correct to 3° 20 4 . A s the navamsa lagna changes roughly once in 13 to 14 minutes, how far will this calculation give a precise answer? (3) In Uthra Kalamrita, it is said that the interval between Sunrise and the time of birth is to be converted into Vighatis. Divide by 225. Then males are born if the remainder is between 0 and 15; or 45 and 90; or between 150 and 225. Females are bom if the remainder is between 15 and 45 or between 90 and 150. According to this method, we have to multiply 53% Ghatis by 60 (he has taken the time of birth as 53% Ghatis) to convert them to Vighatis, thus=53%x60 or215x15. This has to be divided by 225. Thus, 215x15*225=14!4 This falls within the first group of 15 which shows that the sex is male. The - R.B.T. - 6 mistake is that when 215x15 is divided 225, it goes 14 times and the remainder is 75,. Luckily 75 remainder also shows ‘male. In the first example taken, when a first principle is applied the birth may be between 278 and 341 Vighatis. So the remainder may be 53 or 62 or 71 or 80, or 89 or 98 or 106 or 115. So if the consultant is a male (presuming that the horoscope belongs to the consultant) then 55;62;71 ;80 will be one of the timings. If the consultant is a lady, then the number of Vighatis will be 98 or 106 or 115 when both the rules 1 and 3 will be satisfied. (0) Pre-natal-Epoch. Much is said about this. Very briefly let me state how it is not useful to one and all. Suppose two persons are born with the ascendant and Moon as shown below, say, they are born at an interval of 30 minutes on the same day. X hour ChartA LAT Moon 6" X hour Chart B L.17° Moon 6-15 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 7 According to the rules, find where lagna and Moon at the time of Epoch to A and Bare. Moon is passing 10° 17° in Aquarius, on the same day, which is the position of Moon on the day of Epoch. Lagna 6° Moon 10° Epoch A Lagna 6-15 Moon 17° Epoch B L.17 0 What is the rule, find out the exact time on the day of epoch when lagna for A will be Gemini 6° and for B lagna will be Gemini 6° 15’. It can be only one minute. If the lagna of Epoch were to be, say, 2 P.M. to A, then for ‘B’ it will be only 2-01 P.M. Now we have to calculate where Moon would be, on the day of epoch, for A at 2 P.M. and for B at 2-01 P.M. It is more or less the same position : probably it moves by 0-5 minute. - R.B.T. - 8 So, in the Epoch chart it is worked out and found that when Gemini 6° rises, on the day of Epoch, Moon was actually in 13° 15'40”. Whereas for B, when the ascendant is in 6° 15, Moon was in 13°16’20”. Now, we have to take that, for ‘A’ in his horoscope, the lagna should be 13° 15’40” and for the chart B, lagna is 13° 16’20”. Think, a while. If one’s lagna on a particular day is 13° 15’40” and the other’s lagna on the same day in 13° 16’20”, what should be the intervl between one’s birth and the other. It can only be 2 minutes. But what is the actual interval-30 mts. Then how far we can boldly declare this to be a method for rectification is to be judged by the readers. Let us take two births actuals. In a hospital on 8-11 -1945 there were two births. One child was born at 5.30 p.m. The same nurse went to the next room and attended upon another lady and another child was born at 6 P.M. on 8-11-1945. Both want to find out the correct time of birth by applying Prenatal Epoch. The horoscope of the child born at 5.30 P.M. on 8-11-1945 at 25° 19’ N and 12° 30’ E and that of the other at 6 PM. in the same hospital are as under: - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 9 Asc 2-16 Ura. 16-35 Asc 29-29 Ura. 16-35 5.30 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Rahu 2-19 SaL24-5l Mars 294 6 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Rahu 2-19 SaL24-$4 Mars 294 Ket 1-19 Kethu 2-19 Moon 24-11 Mercury 6-12 Sun 15-43 Yen 25-16 Jup 15-15 Nep7-J5 Moon 24-26 Mercury 6-14 Sun 15-44 Yen 15-18 Jup 15-15 Nep7-35 Add correction for interval + 0 0 55 Therefore sidereal time for 5.30 P.M. on 8-11-45 at 82° 30’E 20 39 14 (2)The sidereal time for 6 P.M. on 8-11-45 at 82° 30’E 21 9 19 (1 )The ascendant for the latitude of 25° 19’ for the sidereal time 20 hrs. 39 mts. 14 secs. = 51° 6’ (1 )The ascendant for the latitude of 25° 19’ for the sidereal time 21 hrs. 9 mts. 19 secs. = 59° 29’ A couple may have pleasant time every night. Yet, one cannot say which night function would have been fruitful. The day itself is not definite. Further, the male spermatozoa can enter into'female ova at any time after copulation within - R.B.T. - 10 a period of 38 hours. Therefore at which moment, the epoch commences, nobody can say, even though one knows the few minutes of pleasure. Generally, from the time of epoch, the growth commences and the intrauterine life will be found nine months, i.e., nine solar months or ten lunar months. 1 .There may be an increase or decrease in this period. It is found that it depends upon four factors :i.e., (a) whether Moon was waxing-Sukla Paksha, increasing in light or the longitude between Sun and Moon is increasing from the New Moon; or (b) Moon was waning-Krishna Paksha, decreasing in light or the longitute between Sun and Moon decreasing from the time of Full Moon; (c) whether Moon is found above the horizon, anywhere in the houses 12, 11, 10, 9,8 or 7; (d) or Moon is found below the horizon, anywhere in the houses 6,5,4,3,2 or 1. Then, the period of intea-uterine life in above nine solar months is (a) Waxing Moon, is below horizon (houses 1 to 6) or (b) Waning Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12) and it is less than nine solar months if (a) the Waxing Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12), or (b) the Waning Moon is below horizon houses 1 to 6). II. To find out which sign would have been occupied by Moon on the day of Epoch and which part of the Zodiac -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 11 will be rising at the time of Epoch one is to follow the following rules. Suppose, at the time of birth, it was Sukla Paksha, i.e., Waxing Moon, then the ascendant at the time of Epoch will be the sign and the position of Moon at the time of birth. The day of Epoch is that day on which (around 9 months prior to birth) Moon transited in that sign and around the degree of the lagna at the time of birth. In the above examples, Moon gets separated from Sun. New Moon was over. It is increasing in light. It is called Waxing Moon. As the Lagna in the first example is 21 °6’. Taurus, 7th cusp will be 21 0 6’ Scorpio. Taurus, 7th cusp will be 21° 6’ Scorpio. Therefore Aries, Pisces. Aquarius Capricorn, Sagittarius and the portion between 30° Scorpio and 21 0 6’ Scorpio are above the horizon. Hence the portion of lagna at the moment of Epoch should be 24° 11 ’ Sagittarius (which was the position of Waxing Moon at the time of birth). Further the day of Epoch will be 18th February 1945 (9 months before the birth time) when Moon was transiting around 21 0 6’ Taurus. In the second example, the position of lagna at the time of Epoch will be 24° 26’ in Sagittarius (which was the position of Waxing Moon at the time of birth) and the day of Epoch will be 19-2-4945 when Moon transits 29° 29’ Taurus. - R.B.T. - 12 III. Find the exact time on the day of Epoch when that part of the Zodiac will rise in the East on the day of Epoch which is the position of Moon at the time of birth. For this, one is to take the Table of Houses for the Latitude at which the mother stayed during those pleasant days. Here in these examples, the mother was during the pleasant days and the painful day, all along, in the same place. So from the Table of Houses for Latitude 25° 19’, look down the column “Ascendant-\Nher\ you come to the 7th line on the right side page, you will find Asc, 24° 15’ Sagittarius when the sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. and 2 secs. If you calculate, you will find that 24° 11 ’ Sagittarius would have risen when the sidereal time was 12 hours 21 minutes 44 seconds. Suppose a child is born on 18-2-1945 and you find the sidereal time at the time of birth of a child is 12 hours 21 min. 44 seconds, then what is the actual time of birth. On 18-2-1945, the sidereal Hrs. Min. Secs time at noon is given as ... But the sidereal time 21 52 22 obtained is 12 21 44 (Add 24 hours) 36 21 44 Then the interval between i | 36 21 44 previous noon and the time 1 1 minus obtained plus the correction at 10 Secs/hour ...J 5 20 — ' 14 29 24 -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 13 If you calculate deducting rectification for the interval of 10 secs, per hour, you will get figure 14 hours 27 mts. as the interval between previous noon and the time of birth i.e., 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945. Find out the position of Moon at 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945 Moon at 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945 will be 23° 36' in Taurus. Similarly if one works for the time on 15-2-1945 when Asc 24° 26’ Sagittarius rises, it will be found that the sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. 50 secs, and the time of birth will be 14 hours 30 mts. 30 secs, added to previous noon i.e., 2-28-5 A.M. on 19-2-1945. Calculate the position of Moon for this time 2 hours 28 mts. 5 secs. a.m. on 19-2-1945. It is 23° 36’ in Taurus. Therefore the lagna at the time of birth for one born at 5-30 p.m. is arrived at as 20° 30’ in Taurus and the other born at 6 p.m. is found to be 20° 36’ 1 ”, as the Position of Moon ai the time of Epoch is the Position of lagna at the time of birth, if Moon at birth was waxing. Will this method of rectification be useful? According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati and the simplest method of multiplying the number of Vighatis from sunrise to the time of birth by 4, dividing the product by 9 and counting the star from Aswini trine will give the exact Vigati. - R.B.T. - 14 This method gives confidence, convinces one and proves to be correct. In Brihat Jataka, written by Varaha Mihira In Chapter 26, there are 17 stanzas to cast the horoscope of a person whose time of epoch (impregnation) and also the time of birth is not known. He gives the method to erect a horoscope from the time of query. From this, one can understand that the time of birth and the urge to work out and erect the horoscope of native from the moment of query has a direct bearing. They are inter-linked. There can be no second opinion. Therefore, one is to follow the following method: (1) Note the lord of the day when the query is answered. (2) Note the star at that time i.e. the lord of the constellation in which Moon transits. (3) Find the lord of the sign in which Moon is (4) Who is the lord of the lagna. These planets will be same who govern the sign in which the lagna is, the constellation in it, the sub and the sub-sub Examples: (a) A person wanted to know whether his lagna is Taurus last degree of Gemini first degree, so that he may know - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 15 whether Venus or Mercury is the lord of the lagna. This person visited at 9-5 a.m. on 27-4-1966. The lagna at the time of query was Gemini owned by Mercury. The day is Wednesday governed by Mercury. Moon is in Punan/asu star ruled by Jupiter. It is in its own sign and is aspected by Mars. Hence Mercury, Jupiter, Moon and Mars are the ruling planets at the time of query. The doubt is whether it is Venus sign, Mars star, Saturn sub i.e. between 27°-53’-20” and 30° Taurus or between 0° and 1 o -53’-20" which is jointly ruled by Mercury lord of the sign, Mars, the lord of the constellation and Mercury, lord of the sub. The ruling planets at the time of query have nothing to do with Venus and Saturn. But Mercury and Mars agree. Then what about Jupiter and Moon. As Jupiter is in lagna at the time of query take as Jupiter sub sub. Calculate the time when sub sub of Jupiter will rise on the day of the birth of the native. That is the time of his birth. His lagna is Gemini and its lord is Mercury. Venus is not the lord. No other rule can catgorically eliminate one and correctly give the true lagna. Is not this method convening? 32 of my students who are very intelligent tried to put this method to test. They tested on their horoscopes and they published for the readers to use this method and be benefited. . - R.B.T. - 16 (2) Another person on 3-5-66 asked whether he is born is Scorpio or Sagittarius. The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars. Moon is in Virgo owned by Mercury, the constellation is Chitra governed by Mars. Moon is aspected by Saturn, Mercury and Venus. The doubt is whether the lord of the sign is Jupiter or Mars. Actually the birth will be in Mars sign Scorpio, Mercury Star Jyeshta, Saturn Sub between 27°-53’-29” and 30° Scorpio. It cannot be Sagittarius as the time of query has nothing to do with Jupiter. Next after finding out the sub, one is to calculate when that sign, constellation and sub will rise in the East on the day of birth and when it will be over. In the first case, Gemini sign rose in the East 5 Ghatis 16 Vigatis after sunrise i.e. 316 Vigatis after sunrise. Multiply 316 by 4 and divide by 9. 4 is the remainder. Count from Aswini trine. His star in which Moon transited at the time of birth should be, according to this calculation. Rohini or Hastham or Sravanam. But his star is Jyehta. The remainder should be 9. Then to add or deduct one. Vigati from the time of birth. The nearest one shows the actual Vigati of birth. If you add one more, balance is 12 or 3. If you add one more and do the process remainder is 7 and so deduct one from 316. You get 315. Multiply by 4. The product is 1260. Divide by 9. It goes 140 times -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 17 which may be taken as 139 times and that remainder is 9. When you count from Aswini trine, it agree. Therefore, declare that his time of birth was 315 Vigatis after sunrise on that day, to that locality. The above method alone can clearly fix the position of lagna, give the correct time of birth and convince the consultant. (An Astrologer has to pray; gain the Divine Grace; develop irtuition; but treat this science scientifically; God never fails to guide. He gives the tip to correctly eliminate the incorrect one and select the right one accurately) Another example to decide time to birth : During war time, the clocks showed one hour in advance of actual time. A native born in 1942 has got his horoscope correctly erected for his time of birth. But has got the doubt, whether the time taken for erection of horoscope was actual time of birth from the clock time. His horoscope is given below. According to this, the time taken for calculation was 4- 26 a.m. (correct time). The clock time might have been 5- 26 at the time of birth. The problem is to find out whether the chart below is correct: Time of birth. 4-26 A.M. on — 9-11-42 • - R.B.T. - 18 On 7-4-66 at 7-35 a.m. the ruling planets are as below :- 1. Jupiter: Lord of the day-Thursday 2. Rahu : Lord of the day-Swathi. 3. Venus : Lord of Libra-Thulam (Rasi) in which Moon was transiting. 4. Mars : Lord of the lagna Aries-Mesha. 5. Venus : Lord of the star Bharani rising in the east at 7-35 a.m. Rahu, unaspected by any planet represents lord of the sign Taurus-Rishaba in which it is posited. Lord of Taurus- Rishaba is Venus. Rahu represents Sun, since it is in the constellation Karthik ruled by Sun on 7-4-66. Hence, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus should have ruled native’s time of birth. The native was born on Saturday ruled by Sun. At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 (birth day) exact time, the lagna was Libra-Thulam. Star rising was Chitrai. The sign Libra-Thulam is ruled by Venus. The constellation rising is ruled by Mars. Moon was transiting in Visakam star ruled by Jupiter at the time of birth. Hence at 4-26 a.m. exact time on 8-11 -1942 the ruling planets were Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus. If the birth were to be at 3-26 a.m. (exact time) lagna would have been in Virgo-Kanni ruled by Mercury, the star rising in the east would have been Hastham ruled by Moon. Since Mercury and Moon do not rule the moment of - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 19 analysis, the native could not have been bom at 3-26 a.m. exact time. Let us find out whether 5-26 a.m. exact time corresponding to clock time of 6-26 a.m. might have been the birthtime. At 5-26 a.m. (exact) the star rising was Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam ruled by Venus. Since Rahu and Venus rule the present moment this could have been the birth time. Now how to select? Was it 4-26 a.m. or 5-26 a.m. (both) time exact time, when the birth took place? (1) Find out the lord of the lagna at the moment of analysis. This should have been the sub sub lord rising in the east at the time of birth. (2) At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 find out lord of star rising, lord of the sub rising and lord of the sub sub rising. Lord of the sub sub should be Mars (lord of lagna at the moment of analysis) if 4-26 a.m. exact time were to be correct. At 5-26 a.m. on 8-11-1942 (exact time) sub sub lord of the star rising in east was not Mars. Hence the native should have been born at 4-26 a.m. on 9-11 -1942 corresponding to the clock time 5-25 a.m. since the clock showed one hour in advance of actual of exact time. . - R.B.T. - 20 analysis, the native could not have been born at 3-26 a.m. exact time. Let us find out whether 5-26 a.m. exact time corresponding to clock time of 6-26 a.m. might have been the birth time. At 5-26 a.m. (exact) the star rising was Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam ruled by Venus. Since Rahu and Venus rule the present moment this could have been the birth time. Now howto select? Was it4-26 a.m. or 5-26 a.m. (both) time exact time, when the birth took place? (1) Find out the lord of the lagna at the moment of analysis. This should have been the sub sub lord rising in the east at the time of birth. (2) At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 find out lord of star rising, lord of the sub rising and lord of the sub sub rising Lord of the sub sub should be Mars (lord of lagna at the moment of analysis) if 4-26 a.m. exact time were to be correct. At 5-26 a.m. on 8-11-1942 (exact time) sub sub lord of the star rising in east was not Mars. Hence the native should have been born at 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 corresponding to the clock time 5-25 a.m. since the clock showed one hour in advance of actual of exact time. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 21 HORA AND ITS USE The ecliptic is the apparent pathway of the Sun in the Heavens. The planets and the other luminary Moon, follow their own individual tracks with he along the ecliptic on north and south of it. This width on either side is about 7%° and hence the pathway of the planets is around 15° in width having the ecliptic in its centre. This is called the Zodiac. If one observes, it will appear that the whole Zodiac goes round the earth once a day, i.e., once in 24 hours and the same portion of the Zodiac rises in the east in 23 hours 56 minutes and a few seconds. As the Zodiac is divided into 12 equal parts called Solar mansion (sign or rasi) (Mesha-Aries to Meena-Pisces), each division win be appearing in the east, roughly for a duration of 2 hrs. In other words, the previous sign will appear to rise up in the heavens and the next sign will commence to rise nearly two hours after the previous sign began to rise. Hence the 12 signs rise in the east, roughly at an interval of 2 hours. The Hindu astrologers have subdivided each sign into two halves and called such a division as a Hora. Hence roughly one hour is needed for each Hora to rise in the east or pass through the Meridian. But the Hindu astrologers, in olden days, did not calculate the time in hours and - R.B.T. - 22 minute!!. They used to measure in Ghatis and Vigatis or Naligai and Vinadi. Hence a day is of 60 Ghatis. Hence each sign is approximately 5 Ghatis and half of a sign or a Hora will be about 2J4 Ghatis. Pharos in Chaldean star lord says: In remote and ancient Chaldean the knowledge of the stars and the framing of the Zodiac were the results of the Divinely Inspired Gifts to the wise men. The book of Genesis, the Mosaic Era, the Baby-Ionic and Hindu Empires were non-existent when the Chaldean sages laid down the axiom that ‘Obstral spheres exert ‘Obtinual influence on terrestrial life. ‘Chaldeans followed the Hora and found out the influence of the planets over the affairs, of the people. Also it was said that certain hours are advantageous for certain matters and certain hours are unfortunate for. some affairs. This method of prediction is called ‘Hora’. The ‘Hindus’ also were aware that certain matters thrive in some hours (i.e., 21 Ghatis periods) and some fail in certain hours (21 Ghatis periods). Both the Hindus and the Chaldeans do not follow the same calculations to find out which planet rules a particular time-though the order of the planets is the same. First, let us know something about the days and then about the hour or otherwise called ‘Hora’. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 23 Sunday Tamil Nyayiru, Telugu Adhivaram, others- Bhanu-varam, Ravivaram etc., in India. Planet in English Sun, Tamil-Suryan, Sanskrit- Ravi German-Sonnag (Sonne), Dutch Zondag (Zon). Monday Thingal. Somavaram etc., in India. English-Moon, German-Montage (Mond), French-Lundi (Lune), Italiati-Lunedi (Luna), DutchooMaandag (Maan) etc. Tuesday Sewai- Mangaltfar etc. English-Mars, French- Mardi (Mars), Italian-Manedi (Mars). Wednesday Budha-English Mercury, Italian-Mercoledi (Mercury), French-Mercredi. ThursdayGuru, Brihaspathi, Viyazhan, English-Jupiter- Italian-Giovedi (Jove), Dutch-Donderdag, German, Thor. Friday Sukra, Brigu, Velli; English-Verus, Italian-Venerdi (Venus). French-Vendredi (Venus). Saturday Sani, Mandha, English-Saturn, Dutch-Zaterdag (Saturn). The results signified by the planets do predominate in the above order. Hence the names of these days are arrived at according to the effects agreeing with the particular planet. . - R.B.T. - 24 Probably, the same effects repeat once in 7 days and hence only seven days in the week are fixed; e.g., on Sunday some matters flourish; on Monday some other affairs thrive and after 7 days, the same matters have advantage on Sundays, Mondays etc. As regards the Hora division, the Hindus do not take the time of sunrise for their calculations. They follow strictly according to the time mentioned below: Hours Days From-To Sun Mon Tues Wed Thurs Fri Sat 6- 7.a.m. Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat 7-8. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup 8-9. ” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 9-10. " Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun 10-11." Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven 11-12." Noon Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere 2-1. p.m. Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 1-2. " Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven ' Sat 2-3. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup 3-4 Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 4-5. " Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun 5-6. ” Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven 6.7. " Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere 7-8. " Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 8-9. " Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat 9-10. " Ven Sat Sun ►Moon Mars Merc Jup 10-11.” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 11-12." Moon Mars Merc JuP Ven Sat Sun 12-1. a m. Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Venus 1-2. " JuP Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc 2-3. " Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 3-4 " Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup Ven Sat 4-5. " Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere Jup 5-6. ” Mere Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 25 From the table it may be observed that the planets rule the hours in an order which is the alternate days in the reverse order. Suppose Sun rules a particular hour. Then note, in the reverse order, the days of the week. The alternate one is Friday ruled by Venus. Hence Venus rules the hour, after that of the Sun. Similarly, Thursday is before Friday and Wednesday is the alternate one in the reverse order to Friday. Wednesday is ruled by Mercury. Hence Mercury rules the hour after Venus. Thus the order of the hours is worked out. It will be a pleasant surprise to note that after 24 hrs., that planet which rules between 6 and 7 A.M. is the same planet which governs the day. Therefore, irrespective of sunrise, the locality and the part of the year in which one wants” to find the planet ruling a particular, time, simply refer to the above table. But Westerners and Chaldeans calculate in a different manner. They divide the interval between the time of sunrise and noon into 6 equal parts and each will be little more or less than an hour depending upon the interval between sunrise and noon. Similarly the interval between Moon and sunset is divided into 6 equal parts. Likewise, the time from sunset to midinight and from midnight to sunrise is worked out. - R.B.T. - • 26 Suppose one wants to note the time when Saturn will rule its hour on Wednesday, so that one can avoid (a) to sign an agreement in that period or (b) to fix the marriage during that time or (c) to meet a person to negotiate any transaction etc. Adopt the following principle: (1) What is the Indian Standard Time of Sunrise in that locality on that day? Let it be 5-10 A. M. (2) What is the Indian Standard Time at noon in that locality on that day? Let it be 11-59 A. M. (3) Therefore, the difference between Sunrise and noon will be 6 hrs. 49 min. (4) Divide this by 6. Then you get 1 hour 7 min. for each division. (5) The day selected is a Wednesday. Hence from sunrise 5-10 a.m. to 6-17 a.m. Mercury rules the time. The next is governed by Moon. Hence 6.17 a.m. to 7-24 a.m. is ruled by Moon. The next belongs to Saturn; i.e. Saturn is the lord for the duration from 7 -24 a.m. to 8-31 a.m.,. Therefore this period is governed by Saturn on a Wednesday ruled by Mercury. Therefore this conjoined period of Saturn and Mercury are to be avoided for such action- as mentioned above. When this conjoined period operates in the night and one spends his pleasant time. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 27 with his wife, he can avoid birth of children. This is an effective method of ‘birth’ control’ as both Saturn and Mercury are effeminate planets. But people, planting fruitbearing trees in such conjoined planetary hours, will have very poor yield: the loss will be not only due to locust, pest, rats, etc. but also due to the scarcity of water-supply and fertiliser. Hence for every action, one is to note which planets will contribute for peace, prosperity, success, etc., and which planets are detrimental. Accordingly one can make a selection and enjoy the fruits. (Now the question arises, whether one can come out successful by selecting such periods, even though he runs a very bad period according to dasa or according to progression, people running bad time (a) will never follow this, or (b) even if he tries to follow he will do in the evil sub-division of the planetary hour. What is the sub division?) The planetary hour is sub-divided among the 7 planets Uust as, a dasa is divided among 9 planets as bhuktis and each bhukti is again subdivided among the same 9 planets called antharams.) The first subdivision belongs to the planet which rules the hour and then the sub divisions are governed by the other planets in the same order. Suppose the hora hour is ruled by Venus; then the first subdivision belongs to Venus - R.B.T. - 28 and the’ other 6 subdivisions will be governed by Mercury, Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun. What is the use of this sub-division? (1) Just as on a Wednesday, the hora of Saturn is to be avoided for some actions and transactions, so also, in the few minutes of the conjoined periods of Saturn sub-division in the Mercury hora ahd Mercury sub-division in Saturn’s hora are to be avoided. (2) If a person enjoys Jupiter dasa, Moon bhukti, he can undertake to do any important work during the hora of Jupiter and sub of Moon. (3) If Mars dasa, Jupiter bhukti operates to one, and if the judge announces the judgement favourable to one, then the time at wtlich he pasess it, will be during Mars hora, Jupiter sub or Jupiter hora Mars sub or Mars day (Tuesday) and Jupiter hora or Jupiter day (Thursday) and Mars hora. In the latter case the sub will be ruled by either ofthe two or any other significator contributing to his Success. 14) If one wants to construct a building, he prefers the conjoined hora of Mercury and Mars. (5) One desiring to get married, will select the conjoined planetary hour of Venus and Jupiter. The above is general. Further while selecting a Hora the most important factor has seen omitted which is a - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 29 serious mistake i.e., (a) one does not take into consideration which part of the Zodiac rises in the East and what the lagna is (b) nor does one consider the position of planets at the time and their relative position to the ascendant, to the cusp of that house which signifies the particular matter and to the karaka planet which also rules the same matter. Indeed, these three are the important investigations to be made while electing a muhurtha. But for common undertakings and the usual daily business Hora will be helpful to offer confidence, peace of mind and mostly success. Sun-Hora: Sun is the lord of Sunday. The Hora of Sun will be most potent whenever Sun is strong i.e., whenever Sun transits in its exalted or own sign and in its constellation, Karthikai, Utrhram, Uthradam. Sun governs vitality, immunity and speedy recovery from disease. Hence, to take medicine or to undergo surgical operations, solar hour is auspicious. As Sun indicates power, authority, influence, dignity, honour and reputation, either to take charge of the following posts or to. meet such people for assistance, select Sun Hora. Father, Government officials, President-Sun, Mars’ and Jupiter combination; Vice-President. Sun, Mercury and Mars’ Governor.Sun, Mercury and Jupiter; Mayors, Judges-Sun, Jupiter and Venus; Physicians-Sun, Mercury and Jupiter; Surgeons-Sun, Mercury and Mars, etc. Sun Hora is beneficial for signing contracts-Sun, Mercury and Jupiter to commit forgery or to undertake Hand-writing Thumb impression expert Post Sun, Mercuryand Saturn to register documents, to approach for favour, to execute a will to let on lease, to appeal for promotion, to complain to the police-about the lost property, to have mantras initiated and to concentrate, to enter into politics, etc., to purchase rice, cardamom, pepper, chilly almond, groundnut, cocoanut, aromatic herbs, trees with thorns, orange coloured articles, etc. One can commence praying to Suryanarayana.Lord Vishnu and also give Gold to make jewels, etc, For vaccination, inoculation, etc., prefer this hour.. Also, people who are governed by Sun or who have Sun as., their ruling planet may pray to God for peace, and prosperity during Sun’s Hora. Moon Hora Moon is lord of Monday, The Hora of Moon will be very predominating on (a) Mondays, (b) Rohini star day and (c) whenever Moon transits in its own sign, exalted sign -ASTRO SECRETS &amp;K.P. - 31 and in Hastham and Sravanam star days. Also it is advantageous to note whether Moon occupies the kendra position counted from the ascendant during the Hora of Moon, when it is strong. Approach people duringlMoon Hora. Even the strong willed persons will yield. If you have to carry out the orders of a lady and if she is strict, straightforward lady who may be moody also, arrange interview during Moon Hora. The hard paraffin will become the soft paraffin. If you are an agriculturist, all wet land cultivation, planta-tion, digging wells, excavating canals may be done in these hours-Moon Hora on Fridays are good for harvesting sugarcane. If you deal in milk and milk products, dairy farm, etc., Moon Hora on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursday are auspicious to sell boiling milk; Fridays are auspicious to deal in genuine milk; On Mondays for adulterated milk; Saturdays for ice cream, etc. Those who deal in grains, greens, food materials, gur, and those who do business in oils, kerosene petrol, acids, etc., can start business during Moon Hora. Moon Hora on a Monday and Rohini star day is ideal especially during Gothooli Lagna. Pearls, jewels, ornaments, corals, salt fish etc., can be purchased in this Hora. ^ - R.B.T. - 32 Suppose you buy a marshy land, knowingly or unknowingly during Moon Hora, you will have much appreciation of capital value. Moon, the fastest moving planet, suggests that Moon Hora is advantageous for safe and successful overseas journey. Divers should select Moon Hora, but the lagna should not be afflicted by Saturn, if they want fortune. Musicians select, Moon Hora on Mondays or Fridays for fertile imagination and melodious tune. Tuesdays are beneficial for those who use drum, Mridangam, Thabla, etc. on Wednesday Moon Hora is favourable for Jalatharangam. If Neptune is in 5th lagna, during Moon Hora and if it is in a sign of long ascension, learn Veena. If it is of sho.rt ascension, take to fiddle. .If Moon is in an airy sign and it is oflong ascension, star Nagaswaram: if the ascendant is of short ascension prefer flute. Thus, analyse and judge. Moon Hora IS preferable for those who get appointment as midwife, nurse, etc. Also it is good to take up service in the Defence Department. You can plan, contemplate and scheme during Moon Hora when the merits and demerits will dawn in your mind and you cannot decide on an impulse or rashly? - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 33 Moon Hora in the night is good. What for, need not be elaborated. For public activities and popularity for platform, speeches etc. Moon Hora is good; especially Thursday. If your mother is rich or your maternal relatives, discuss during Moon Hara, you will become their favourite and you will have gains without pains. On Wednesday during Moon Hora. you can take appoint ment in the Textile Department and you may put on new dress. Hotels may be opened on Tuesday during Moon Hora. So also for drinks. During Moon Hora, pray to Goddess Gouri and Lalitha for peace. Mars Hora Mars rules over Tuesdays. It governs Aries -Mesha and Scorpio-Vrischika. It is the lord of the stars Mrigasirisha, Chitra and Danishta. It gets exalted in Capricorn -Makara. Hence the Hora of Mars will be most potent whenever Mars is strong by transiting in its own or exalted signs or in its stars and on Tuesday, Suppose on a Tuesday, when Mars is in 23° 20' to, 24°-06-40' in Capricorn in exaltation, - R.B.T. - 34 in its own star and own sub it is 3 in its most potent position, especially when it happens to be the 10th house to the lagna rising then during Mars Hora. It is auspicious for the Commander-in chief to prepare for war. It is good to file any suit in a court of law. It is advantageous to argue during Mars Hora and win the case. On a Tuesday, during Mars Hora, try for compromise and fair settlement, purchase lands, start a brick kiln; on Saturdays commence trench or tunnel work. [Trench means, you excavate the earth vertically down whereas Tunnel is horizontal earth, rather rock, removal, mostly for railways. Saturn and Mars indicate trench and tunnel.) If you want to use manure, Mars Hora on a Monday is auspicious. To purchase surgical instruments, Sunday-Mars Hora or the day of the lord of 12 and Mars Hora. To join duty in the military, police or factory, Mars ‘Hora on Tuesday is advantageous. It is lucky to start a press mechanical engineering, industry, building construction, or open electronics shop on a Wednesday in Mars Hora. To join duty in a court of law or take oath as a President, Judge etc., Law, Thursday is propitious. Goldsmiths, jewellers, may have opening ceremony on Thursdays. Fridays are also good. Mars Hora on a Thursday is beneficial for executive officers of temples or industry or church or colleges and schools and those who say - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 35 that they relinquish the world and start preaching to others whether they-practise or not. But those who want to practise, but are not very anxious to teach others can have it on a Saturuay. On Fridays, Mars Hora gives vitality and satisfies the partner. It is good for union for jewellary, for animal husbandry, for leather and hides, for coffee, tea, boarding, lodging, cinema theatre, games, luxury goods, automobile, bullock carts, jutkas, agricultule, timber, furniture, etc., to learn telegraphy; to deal in telephone accessories. To open a mill or factory prefer Wednesday. To prepare arms, spears, instruments, dagger, to excavate, to construct a slaughter house, lethal chamber, to have lead or copper industry, to deal in hides, skins, shoes etc., Saturdays are fortunate. Those who buy land, during Mars Hora, and sign the document in the morning, say, between 6-30 AM and 7 - 30 A.M. having Sun in the 12th bhava. will not enjoy the benefit of the appreciation of land value, as the Government will acquire the land. But those who sign and purchase the property between 8 and 10 A.M. having Sun in the 11 th house: (supposing that Sun rises at 6A.M) will have the full advantage of the high price. You can buy coral, ruby and red coloured articles. Best time to construfct a house would be at a time when Mars is. - R.B.T. - 36 exalted; when Mars Hora is on and the accendant is Scorpio and the degree in Scorpio is between 0° 33%’ to 10 20' which will be Vishaka 4th pada governed by Jupiter and the sub is... Mars. In that case there willJbe no difficulty for the availability of money, building materials etc. There will be the blessing of Providence. For peace and prosperity pray Lord Subramanya or Muruga or Narasimba or Kali or Ganesh. pray Subramanya on Sunday or Tuesday especially when you serve in a military department. On Mondays, start Kali; Badrakali, on Tuesday-Ganesh or Muruga, Veerabhadran, on Wednesdays-Narasimha; on Thursdays- Dhakshinamurthi, Raja Rajeswari; on Fridays- Veera Lakshmi and Lakshmi Narasimha. on Saturdays- Venkatesa, Venkatachalapathy, lyyappan. Mercury-Hora Budha, Mercury is the lord of Wednesday. Mercury Hora is very strong and powerful on Wednesdays during the time, when Mithuna or Gemini or Kanni-Virgo, rises in the East and on Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi star days, especially Revathi. Admits boys ,and girls in schools and colleges on a Mercury -day during Mercury Hora. Even the dull-witted will come out in bank. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 37 One can start memorising from Mercury Hora, poetry important stanzas, etc. Prefer Mercury Hora to deliver a speech especially on Thursdays. So also, accept the post of a teacher or professor. Accountants, auditors, mathematicians can select Thursdays and Mercury Hora. Painters, drawing masters, artists and dancers can commence on Fridays in Merrcury Hora. Editors, publishers, book-sellers, printers, press owners, publicity organisations can start functioning on Tues-days in Mercury Hora-most efficient work will be done if one commences during Mercury Hora. Daily newspapers, almanacs, ephemeris, ambassadors, agents, representatives, brokers, auctioneers can begin on Wednesdays. Typists, should prefer Tuesdays, and Shorth and writers should select Saturdays. Treat neurasthenic patients and those who suffer from Vitamin B deficiency during Mercury Hora. Those who commit forgery, or fraud, do it during Saturdays, Mercury Hora or Wednesdays is Saturn Hora. Those who take service in the Postal department, Telegraph and Telephone Offices, overseas communication Engineering correspondence, etc., or purchase lottery tickets, bonds, securities shares, or prize bond etc., must do so on Wednesday Mercury Hora or on the day of the lord of 11 and Mercury Hora. - R.B.T. - ' 38 If you desire to float a compa ny or to underwrite, Mercury Hora is the best. For those who deal in paper, stationery, oil seeds, jute, wheat, quick-silver, emerald, green stone, onions, greengram, watches, telescopes and microscopes, Mercury Hora is very advantageous. If you proceed overseas as an ambassador or as a representative or for foreign studies or for foreign collaboration, prefer Wednesdays or Thursdays and never miss Mercury Hora. Important documents can be drafted during Mercury Hora with advantage. Pray to Lord Vishnu, Rama, Krishna, Anjaneya. etc. Try to concentrate. Vacillation is the only defect. Jupiter-Hora: It is otherwise called Guru, Viyazhan, Brahaspathj, e;tc. It rules over Thursday. The Hora of Jupiter will be very predominating on (a) Thursdays, (b) when Moon transits in Poorvapathrapada 1 to 3 quarter, (c) when Moon transits in Cancern exalted sign of Jupiter and in Sagittarius and Pisces owned by Jupiter and (d) when Moon transits in Punarvasu, Visakha and Poorvapathrapada stars. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P.- 39 Approach people during Jupiter Hora. Do you want over¬ draft facilities from a bank? Meet the proper authorities during Jupiter Hora. If Jupiter a benefic to you? Are you running Jupiter’s period? Then, never miss to meet the ministers or high officials in the Government during Jupiter Hora. Success in your attempts is certain. Have you the desire to study Veda, Astrology, Philosophy, Religion, Law, Economics, Banking etc. Purchase of books and begin to read on a Thursday, preferably on Jupiter’s star day and in Jupiter Hora. Do you deal in gold and silver? Is your income not satis¬ factory? Are you depreised? Open a branch on a Thursday in Jupiter Hora when Jupiter is in direct motion and is strong. You must have decent increase in income. Always make it a point to meet commercial tax and Income-tax officials during Jupiter Hora. The interview will be pleasant, peaceful and profitable. If you are ill and if a physician offers any specific medicine to be taken internally, prefer this Hora. Even to buy a tonic, to take ayurvedic medicine, Jupiter Hora on a Tuesday is advantageous. Establishment of stri Sadhana office for the prevention of prostitution, animal husbandry, construction of temples and charitable institutions, colleges, mutts, libraries, banks, etc., in Jupiter’s Hora will prove to be advantageous. . - R.B.T. - 40 This Hora is very essential to purchase vehicles especially on Friday during Jupiter Hora, or refregerators on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora or lay foundation for houses on Fridays during this hour or take up minister’s post on Sundays or Tuesday in this hora or borrow money on Thursdays or invest on shipping or Petrol Shares on Mondays or take up a job in the educational department or air travel on Wednesdays, etc. Depending on the God or Goddess on its day, during Jupiter Hora, have the initiation of mantras. Note down Jupiter’s hora in the night hours. Be friendly with your partner in life, wife or husband. Even if you had no chance to have a child so far, Jupiterwill not let you down. It will fulfill your desire by giving you a child. If you have already many, avoid this hour. Open bank account, take up the junior auditor’s post or accept the profession signified by Jupiter during its hour. Take up Insurance policy on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora. Your endowment policy will mature and you can eniov the benefit. But if the Insurance agents were to obtain the signature of a person, in a life policy during the conjoined period of Saturn and Mars, the Insurance company will lose heavily, whereas it will be a fortune to the members of the family who outlive the person who has signed his policy during Mars Hora on a Saturday or Saturn Hora on Tuesday. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 41 The Government has to choose Jupiter Hora if they lay foundation for hospitals (on Sundays), shipping (on Mondays); buildings for Police, Military, Magistrate court, law courts, Industry etc. (on Tuesdays); for educational Institution, postal departments, communication, All India radio, textiles,engi-neering, etc. (on Wednesdays); for law college or legal department, temples, churches, charitable institutions, banks, treasury, revenue department international trade etc. (on Thursdays), Animal husbandry, food department, agricul-ture, tea board, coffee board, prohibition department, gold de control etc. (or Fridays); insurance corporation, labour depart¬ ment, mines and minerals, control department, Intelligence dept, retrenchment, famine, refugee, quarters for servants, slaughter house etc. (on Saturdays). Such a beginning promises, (a) no delay and difficulty in completing the project, (b) expansion and improvement, (c) co-operation from the public and their wholehearted support, and (d) fulfilment of the desire of the Government and benefit to the subjects. Venus- Hora : It is otherwise called Sukra, Brigu, Velli, etc. It governs Friday. The Hora of Venus is very strong for Venusian matters (a) on Fridays, (b) on the days when Moon transits in - R.B.T. - ' 42 Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada constellations and (c) when Moon transits in Taurus or Libra or or Pisces which is its exalted sign. If on a Friday, during Venus Hora, when Moon transits in its own star, one comences to do any of the matters signified by Venus knowingly or unknowingly, success is sure. Peace and prosperity are promised. Harmony and happiness can be had. Prefer Venus Hora if you want to meet an officer who is generally impatient, who is a hard task-master and who is moody. You will find that he is calm and co-operating. Even militant type of person, arrogant, foolhardy and rash will give a patient hearing and will be helpful, The temper gets softened during this hour. A cobra may be ferocious due to Mars. But if it takes its food, which is shown byVenus, it is harmless. The fiery nature of Mars will be toned down by Venus. If you have to look at the girl or at the boy before fixing up your marriage, you select Venus Hora if you want to select this “partner, but if you do not like the alliance, you select Mars or Sa turn Hora when the negotiation will fall through and you can be happy. Venus Hora promises harmony and happiness. If you feel/that you are exhausted and you have lost much of your vitality, take medicine, especially Ayurvedic (especially from, Badhana Ayurveda ashramam at Calcutta) on Thursday or Friday during Venus Hora, it will rejuvinate you. -ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 43 Write love letters during- Venus Hora. You start writing after this hour starts and finish it before this hour is over. Even though you may not normally have command of language to give expression to your love, during Venus Hora, appropriate words will be used by you which will appeal to the partner. If you receive a reply during other Horas, do not be impatient. Wait till Venus Hora starts. Then open the sealed cover and read. You will be very happy. Now you may ask, “she had already written and posted the letter. How can the Hora change the contents of the letter?” The answer is this. Knowingly or unknowingly you can open the letter at any Hora. According to the Hora, you will find the letter. If it is Saturn Hora, then the partner would have mentioned the inability to meet you and she will fix up-some other time. If it is Mars Hora, the tone of the letter will upset you. So, why should you take a chance? Venus Hora will arrange for tea, dinner, cinema, music party, meeting in an unfrequented place, etc. Those who would desire to cultivate love, must prefer Venus Hora. Buy jewels, silk sarees, costly dress, diamond and costly gems, sandalwood, glass, powder, scented oils and scents, eyelass, lipstick etc., during Venus Hora. It will add beauty by moderate use. - R.B.T. - 44 Sow the seed-bulbs, potato, tapioca or groundnut or sesame in this Hora. If you want to sever connection with anybody, this hour win help you. For illegal intimacy this is the best hour. Start petrol, oil, coal, skin, leather and hide business in Saturn Hora. Lay foundation for such business then. If you find It Impossible to lead your life with your wife, do not tell her your programme but disappear during Saturn Hora. If you tell her, she will come to the secluded place selected by you and continue to give trouble. Pray for Lord Venkateswara, lyyappa during Saturn Hora. Prefer this hora to become a sanyasi. - ASTRO SECRETS &amp; K.P. - 45 RECTI. CHART RECTIFIED BY K.P. ANALYSIS A Chart drawn according to traditional astrology is as follows: Kahu 4-50 Mars 26-27 Ven 12-33 Sat20-29 Sun 27-54 5.30 p.m. 8-11-45 Sayana Merc 23-05 Asc. 22-42 Jup 19-16 R Moon 2-11 Kethu 4-50 The time of birth is said to be between 8 to 8-20 p.m. L.M.T. The native is born on 13th July, 1913, Sunday at 24° 01’ N. Lat. and 89° 16’ E. Long. Question : How to rectify the position of Moon? Answer : According to the Chart supplied, Moon is at 2° 11’ in Scorpio. Is it correct? Let us rectify it by the ruling planets at the time of judgment. This Chart is judged at 5-48 p.m. on 12-12-1967. Moon, at this time, falls at 7° 35’ in Sagittarius, The sign, in which the Moon transits, is ruled by Jupiter.