 be in the ascendant along with the ascendant lord as the Moon is in an angle or in a trine, the native will be interested in good deeds. W'$ \ 16. If Saturn is in the 10th along with a debilitated planet while the 10th from Navamsa ascendant is occupied by a malefic, the native will be bereft of (virtuous) acts. fPRTT HTYKlflU^ I |R5lf faTrft 17. One will indulge in bad acts if the 10th lord is in the 8th while the 8th lord is in the 10th with a malefic. W.WK iftaTTfilW &lt;TTW^f I U?i;U 18. Obstructions to the native’s acts will crop up if the 10th lord is in fall, as both the 10th house from the ascendant and the 10th from the 10th (i.e. 7th from the ascendant) have malefic occupations. Chapter 22 1 I £3 vjf crdtf I ST 1 ^ %SiT»f ra^'4 1R&lt;T||{&amp;|| Nnrgw ^efcji^on *»»««*iHfifii^ ^%?t *nro&gt;j^ 1 5Tnn 5 *T5^TT*T ^f£ ^JJki'twT *T&gt; Htfa ll^$l» 19-2 L COMBINATIONS FOR FAME: One will be endowed with fame if the Moon is in the 10th while the 10th lord is in a trine from the 10th and the ascendant lord is in ascendant’s angle. Similar effects will come to pass if the 1 1th lord is in the 10th while the 10th lord is strong and be in aspect to Jupiter. Fame will come to the native if the 10th lord is in the 9th as the ascendant lord is in the 10th and the Moon Is in the 5th from the ascendant. v star fNhroh 22. O excellent of the Brahmins, thus have been told about the effects of the 10th house in a brief manner. Other related effects be guessed by you based on the relationship of the lords of the ascendant and of the 10th, 3t«r 5rm*rFTO?TTstTnT: ir^u Chapter 22 Effects Of The Eleventh House Ttwfa %3TtfT* Jl «J5?TT 3TTcT^ ?fr% Am 1. O excellent of the Brahmins, I now explain effects relating to the 1 1th house, the auspiciousness of which bhava will make one happy at all times. 284 Brihat ParasQra Hora Sastra *RT cTT^ f?fc&amp;T %f5fq^tnqt: | IgtTTW CRT $qff5% $qf?rnbfq srril^ll 2. Should the 11th lord be in the 11th itself or be in an angle or in a trine from the ascendant, there will be many gains. Similarly if ihe 11th lord is exalted, though in combustion, there will he many gains. Notes : The second line of the above verse deserves a proper approach, means “although in combustion or having lost rays in the Sun”. The word “srfir” meaning “although” in this context deters the otherwise possible interpr- etation as “Sun’s Navamsa or Sun's Rasi” which of course will be an extreme rendering. To wit, the correct import is that even though the 1 1th lord is combust but be in exaltation the native will gain abundantly. P«tt jrih fcftfaicui^u 3. If the 11th lord is in the 2nd while the 2nd lord is in angle (from the ascendant) along with Jupiter, the gains will be great. qjfspq STRT *nr^mf?T&lt;S4&gt;TTRJ ||V|| 4. If the 11th lord is in the 3rd while the 11th is occupied by a benefic, the native will gain 2000 Nishkas in his 36th year. Notes i means in the Bhava or house in question, i.e. the llth bhava and not the 3rd bhava. Since already prececds, to mean “in the 3rd house” will be redundant. (Nishka) though meaning a gold coin was generally taken to indicate one Karsha or Su varna of 16 Mashas. This also denotes a certain weight of gold in the hoary days. The sage thus obviously hints at the opulence of the native in varied measures by quantifying the resultant Nishkas according to the merits of the planetary formations at birth. %Rf*qrN»T *IT*RT*T ^TTTT i r fRcf I Chapter 22 185 5. If the 1 1th lord is conjujct a benefic in an angle or in a trine (from the ascendant), the native will acquire 500 Nishkas ■ in his 40th year. gw u* i 6. The native will own 6000 Nishkas if the 1 1 th is occu- pied by Jupiter while the 2nd and 9th are respectively taken over by the Moon and Venus by position. fPraTOTftw UVSII 7. Should Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon be in the 11th from the 1 1th (i.e. 9th from the ascendant) the native will be endowed with wealth, grains, fortunes, diamonds, ornaments etc. 5Tm?T WKTTWW | 5 VRH Hell 8. One will gain 1000 Nishkas in his 33rd year if the 11th lord is in the ascendant and the ascendant lord is in the 1 1th. targrroam fnTif%5rr?T ntn 9. If the nth lord is in the 2nd as the 2nd lord is in the 11th, one will amass abundant fortunes after marriage. ^tlr!'fn3i4nMin&lt;ir&lt;c^n^7*n^^T: 11^ oil 10. If the 11th lord is in the 3rd as the 3rd lord is in the 11th, one will gain wealth through co-born and be endowed with excellent ornaments. OTTTOT cfT fs% &lt;n«i*rofa&amp; l to ii^ii 11* There will be no gains in spite of numerous efforts if the 11th lord is in fall, in combustion or be in the 6th/8th/I2th with a malefic. Chapter 23 Effects Of The Twelfth House ou^nnTT ««t fg*rh *1*1**# .pftlTOtsfq 9111(11 ^ ^ ST'fTRtjq^ *J9¥T9 JMAtfdi! I 5wfa«ft tm?rmR*9&lt;T tffcmiRii ^=6^ fastfST 9r m*TU*rfc*T^T?I% 1 foqmiTTfiratf^v u\u &lt;TTruiTTT’»!&gt; | qTf«4fimflqeft f%5Tt fa^Tfa ST1J: IIVII 1-4. 0 Brahmin, now I tell you about the effects of the 12th house. There will be expenses on good accounts if the J 2th lord is with a benefic, or be in own house or be exalted or if a benefic occupies the 12th. One will own beautiful houses and beds and be endowed with superior scented articles and .pleasures if the Moon happens to be the 12th lord and be exalted or be in own sign/Navamsa or in the 1 lth/9th/5th in Rasi/Navamsa. The said native will live with rich clothes, and ornaments, be learned and lordly. tFqwftamssCTm i flfrsRT: STTcf HUH «JtnfawrfT*vir?T i R fj! *999 h^h 5-6. And if the 12th lord is in the 6th/8th or be in enemy's Navamsa, debilitation Navamsa or in 8th in Navamsa, one will be devoid of happiness from wife, be troubled by expenses and deprived of general happiness. If he be in an angle/trine, the native will beget a spouse. Chapter 23 187 «ft?rrf^iTT%q srices nvsii 7. Just as these effects are derived from the ascendant in regard to the native, similar deductions be made about co-born etc. from the 3rd and other houses. Notes : Hints arc given here to know from the native’s horoscope the effects related to his co-born, uncles etc. For example, brother’s finances from the 4th house (2nd from the 3rd), brother’s marriage from the 9th house (7th from the 3rd), father’s health from the 2nd house (6th from the 9th), mother’s health from the 9th (6th from the 4th), wife’s spending nature from the 6th house (i.e. 12th from the 7th) and so on and so forth. Proceeding on these lines, we can see the possibility of predicting many important events for other relatives from the native’s horoscope itself. ^2-t: 1 t&amp;ST: qfftff FRrTT: Hell 8. Planets placed in the visible half of the zodiac will give explicit results while the ones in the invisible half will confer secret results. Notes : Visible half is the half of the zodiac within s range of 180 degrees from the ascendant’s cusp seen backwards. The other half is invisible. A planet in the visible half of the zodiac will be more potential in effects while in the invisible half it is less potential and unmanifest. TrTff tq&amp;T ||£|| 9. If Rahu is in the 12th along with Mars, Saturn and the Sun, the native will go to hell. Similar effect will occur if the 12th lord is with the Sun. Notes : The 12th house relates to one's fate after death. Whether he will reincarnate, or attain infernal region or the Lotus Feet of the Lord will have to be studied from the 12th house. In this connection, refer to ch. 26 of Horasara also. 188 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra cnfNi |&amp; *ter: fui?fTT5r tm*: m&lt;&gt;n 10. If there is a benefic in the 12th while its lord is exalted or is conjunct or aspected by a benefic, one will attain final emancipation. *rf«£ frnf*n;?T7 11. One will wander from country to country if the 12th lord and 12th house are with malefics and be in aspect to malefics. *rwi^»r 12. One will move in his own country if the 12th lord and 12th house are with benefics and be in aspect to benefics. Notes i In the previous sloka and the present one, clues are given to know as to whether one will be in his own place or outside the native place. If the 12th house and its lord are connected with benefics, one will progress in his own place while he will wander hither and thither f without progress) if 12tb lord and 12th bouse are spoilt by malefics. *T**rfa*i^ tfRfaR* i 13. Earnings will be through sinful measures if the 12tb is occupied by Saturn or Mars etc, and be not aspected by a benefic. 14. If the ascendant lord is in the 12th while the 12th lord is in the' ascendant with Venus, expenses will be on religious grounds. ST«T *TIsrei&lt;PfTSJT?!T: IP? VI l Chapter 24. Effects Of The Bhava Lords f^rmf &lt;re»ftsfa *ttu?u 1. EFFECTS OF ASCENDANT LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sfoka 12) : Should the ascendant lord be in the asecndant itself, the native will be endowed with physical happiness (i.e. good health) and prowess. He will be intelli- gent, fickle-minded, will have two wives and will unite with other females. Notes : The position of the ascendant lord in the ascendant itself will make the native fearless and longlived. er*t vtnptpt i s o 2. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 2nd, he will be gainful, scholarly, happy, endowed with good qualities, be religious, honourable and will have many wives. Notes : The native having the ascendant lord in the 2nd house will face obstacles in obtaining progeny and thus he will be left with a longing for issues. He will further become wealthy through his own efforts. tffpT STTcT: 1 *TRt wsfhi^u 3. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 3rd, the native will equal a lion in valour, be endowed with all kinds of wealth, be honourable, will have two wives, be intelligent and happy. 190 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Notes : Should the 3rd house contain the ascendant lord, one will be equal to a king, respected by others and will indulge in unnatural methods of sexual gratification. ’jq^WTfarrT; IIVII 4. If the ascendant lord is in the 4th, the native will be endowed with paternal and maternal happiness, will have many brothers, be lustful virtuous and charming. Notes : With the ascendant lord in (he 4th house, the native is of a noble descent. He will prosper by his own efforts. He will be ambitious and beautiful. Prosperity will come to him easily. He will ever enjoy physical felicity. STWPTrqqTVT: qqfaq: UX.U 5. If the ascendant lord is in the 5th, the native will have mediocre progenic happiness, will lose his first child, be honourable, given to anger and be dear to king, qesq 3TTrrt I qtqi^ vnjrT: . qteT 6. If the ascendant lord is in the 6th and related to a malefic the native will be devoid of physical happiness, and will be troubled by enemies if there is no benefic aspect. Notes : The ascendant lord going to the 6th house will mar the prospects of health. However, for Scorpio and Taurus ascendant, it will be a felicitous augury for freedom from diseases. The 6th house position of Lagna Lord in general will give abundant wealth and respect apart from royal status. There is, however, a possibility of more than one marriage or losing the spouse early. &lt;tt^ qrof ftft q sftefa i qr ST ;jqtefq trmoii Chapter 24 191 7. If the ascendant lord is a malefic and be in the 7th the native’s wife will not live (long). If the planet in question be a benefic, one will wander aimlessly, face penury and be dejected. He will alternatively become a king (if the said planet is strong). ^TTrT: fegfirsufeSTR^t I ^ «1T^RTT: tic 1 1 8. If the ascendant lord is in the 8th, the native will be an accomplished scholar, be sickly, thievish, be given to much anger, be a gambler and will join others’ wives. Notes : The only good effect of the ascendant lord being in the 8th house is one’s academic accomplishment. This position will cause Balarishta or child mortality. The native’s health will be poor. He will be a repository of misfortunes. He will sec many deaths in the family to his grief. His married life will be a hell. He will be a profligate and will incur ill- fame and disrepute. Penury will ever be after him. In case of Aries and Libra ascendant, this approach for evil results should be avoided and results declared after further scanning the radix. smtTir sTtcft i ||£ 1 | 9. If the ascendant lord is in the 9th, the native will be -fortunate, dear to people, be a devotee of Sri Vishnu, be skilful, eloquent in speech and be endowed with wife, sons and wealth. Notes : One will gain abundantly from his father. Every undertaking of his will be fruitful. He will be well-disposed to his co-born, These are additional results of the ascendant lord occupying the 9th house. vT'%9T 371^ 3TTcT: | 5 T% sum: RfTfafTRit T 113 oil 10. If the ascendant lord is in the 10th, the native will be endowed with paternal happiness, royal honour (or patronage), fame among men and will doubtlessly have self-earned wealth. 192 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Notes : The 10th house occupied by the ascendant lord denotes obtainment of co*bom. The native "will possess ambi- tions and will prosper in his pursuits. mmt «hri: wnnrnfanKi 11. If the ascendant lord is in the 1 1th, the native will always be endowed with gains, good qualities, fame and many wives. II^D 12. If the ascendant lord is in the 12th and be devoid of benefic aspcct/conjunction, the native will be bereft of physical happiness, will spend unfruitfully and be given to much anger. Notes : If the ascendant lord is in the 12th, the native’s life will not be prosperous. He will be addicted to gambling, thieving, debauchery and other vices. He will expend wastefully. »TRT: V 13. EFFECTS OF 2ND LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 24) : If the 2nd lord is in the ascendant, the native will be endowed with sons and wealth, be inimical to his family, lustful, hard-hearted and will do others’ jobs. Notes : One will be fraudulent and will face financial upheavals with the lord of the 2nd occupying the ascendant. These evil effects will not wholly apply to Capricorn ascendant, but with some modifications. *ra**a: i 14. If the 2nd lord is in the 2nd, the native will be wealthy, proud, will have two or more wives and be bereft of progeny. 193 Chapter 24 sriHt toft »rf?r*rf5f ^ \ vruTvihft ^qrn^t nt mi 15. If the 2nd lord is in the 3rd, the native will be valorous, wise, virtuous, lustful and miserly— all these when related to a benefic. If related to a malefic, the native will be a heterodox. Notes : Should the 2nd lord be in the 3rd house, t'ie native will be ill-related to females and will earn through pro*a- tutes. If a malefic is related to the 2nd lord in the 3rd, the person concerned will not be God-fearing and will have dirty conduct. gv»n 16. If the 2od lord is in the 4th, the native will acquire all kinds of wealth. If the 2nd lord is . exalted and be conjunct Jupiter, one will be equal to a king. Notes : The placement of the 2nd lord in the 4th will also produce a heterodox and one of questionable character. The exaltation of the 2nd lord in the 4th applies only to Libra ascendant Obviously the sage suggests that the exaltation of Mars in the company af Jupiter (in debilitation) in the 4th house will prove extremely favourable for a Libra native confe- rring near-re galhood. It is also not unmeaningful to conclude that the 2nd lord exalted and joining Jupiter becoming a good omen for any ascendant. srni^ 17. If the 2nd lord is in the 5th the native will be wealthy. Not only the native, but also his sons, will be intent on earning wealth. Notes : The 2nd lord going to the 5th house will make one resort to trickery. His family life will not be happy. He will not be kind to others. He will be very lustful and will be prone to lose a child prematurely. 194 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra ftgiwnp$ o?nji iwt^ ^111511 18. If the 2nd lord is kx the 6th along with a benefic the native will gain wealth through his enemies; if be with a .malefic, there will be loss through enemies apart from ihutilation of shanks. Notes : There will be severe loss of wealth through thefts and servants. He will have defects of privities. These are further effects of the 2nd lord occupying the 6th house. aim: 'TTSRTRt l cTFi *rrcf * oifinnfoftiiKti 19. If the 2nd lord is in the 7th, the native will be addicted to others* wives and be a doctor. If a malefic is related to the said placement by conjunction or by aspect, the native’s wife will (also) be of questionable character. Notes : The 2nd lord in the 7th house and related to a dire malefic will render the mother of the native being of questionable character according to some hoary authors. How- ever, the 4th house and its lord deserve a special attention in the context of mother’s disposition. prc* ^ n^oii 20. If the 2nd lord is in the 8th, the native will be endowed with abundant land and wealth. But he will have limited marital felicity and be bereft of happiness from his elder brother. Emtqrn^ tRiwuft &lt;T£ &lt; ne* cftftwscnfsrfa; 113*11 21. If the 2nd lord is in the 9th, the native will be wealthy, diligent, skilful, sick during childhood and will later on be happy (i. e. healthy) and will visit shrines, observing religious code etc. jTRfT 3im: qfarT: I Chapter 24 1V5 22. If the 2nd lord is in the 10th, the native v/lll be libidinous, honourable, learned, will have many wives and much wealth but be bereft of filial happiness. CritafrPTtft HTtf vtfdiTTH 5Tra% TO 113 W 23. If the 2nd lord is in the 11th, the native, will have all kinds of wealth, be ever diligent, honourable and famous. Notes : The native will undergo miseries due to ill-health during childhood and with the march of time he will be endowed with health throughout, if the 2nd lord is in the 1 ltli house. ITT mUKeftWH jrfjr n^u 24. If the 2nd lord is in the 12th, the native will be adventurous, be devoid of wealth, and be interested in •ther’s wealth while his eldest child will not keep him happy. Notes : According to the saying "facets sJpriNrfo trjtw- Meaning that if the 2nd lord is in the 12th house wi two or more (favourable) planets, the native will be exl cmcly wealthy. This is found to be a sound clue in actual cases. However, the 2nd lord lonely in the 12th is bad for riches, except in the case of Aries ascendant with Venus in the 1 2th in high dignity. %^T5T: 3TT&lt;Tt f5WT|[Htsfq ^f^TFT IRltb 25. EFFECTS OF 3RD LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 36) : If the 3rd lord is in the ascendant, th native will have self-made wealth, be disposed to worship, be wlorous and be intelligent although devoid of learning. Notes : One will have a lean body with the as^ndant having the 3rd lord in it. He will have such sexual lirtthat cannot be subdued. He will be short-tempered and ill-disposed fo others. 196 Brihat Parasara Hot a Sastra fipfft qgani ftft r^pnf^r: i wircwft wat* 113 v* 26. If the 3rd lord is in the 2nd, the native will be corpulent, devoid of valour, will not make much efforts, be not happy and will have an eye on others’ wives and others’ wealth. Notes : Should the 3rd lord be in the 2nd house, one will resort to unnatural sexual means of gratification. He will not show enthusiasm in his undertakings. 27 If the 3rd lord is in the 3rd, the native will be endowed with happiness through co-bom and will have wealth and sons, be cheerful and extremely happy. nfasr pT «:ircu 28. If the 3rd lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, wealthy and intelligent but will acquire a wicked spouse. TTitri aw 29. If the 3rd lord is in the 5th, the native will have sons, and be virtuous. If in the process the 3rd lord be conjunct or aspected by a malefic, the native will have a formidable wife. «T*«**Sra* 1 30. If the 3rd lord is in the 6th, the native will be inimical to his co-boro, be affluent, will not be well-disposed to his maternal unde and be dear to bis maternal aunt. Notes * The student’s attention is drawn to the statement of the text, v/z. mgtTPfV ftzfr TC which been without any misconception, rendered to denote the native’s being ‘dear to his maternal aunt”. At the same time, Sanketa Nidhi while commenting on the 3rd lord’s placement in the 6th house gives 197 Chapter 24 an overt clue to the native being fond of physicallp matiny with his maternal aunt. One wonders whether sage Parasara covertly points out to one and the same thing. Possibly so, for the Sans- krit expression is so flexible. 5:5ft q^ft^r^ft srmft trotcuHH 31. If the 3rd lord is in the 7th, the native will be inter- ested in serving the king and be not happy during boyhood but at the end of his life. Notes : It is not a favourable indication to have an indep- endent profession or business when the 3rd lord is in the 7th house. The 7th denptes one’s public relationship, business prospects etc. and an evil lord is not welcome there. As a result, the native will be destined to be in the employ of others. Further, this position will give a tendency to steal. The native will incur a legal award like death. *ranrs&gt;nft*ft * h^h 32. If the 3rd lord is in the 8th, the native will be a thief, will derive his livelihood serving others and will die at the gate of royal palace. rnrft wfsnoVft ftg: i 33. If the 3rd lord is in the 9th, the native will lack paternhl bliss, will make fortunes through wife and will enjoy progenic and other pleasures. Notes : Although one may have fortunes and progenic happiness, one will unendingly feel miserable if the 3rd lord occupies the 9th bouse. His father will be a contemptible person. vTTcT: I Tfl: 11 ^ VII {£8 Brthat Parasara flora Sastra 34. If &lt;he 3rd lord is in the 10th, the native will have all kinds of happiness and self-made wealth and be interested in nurturing wicked females. mmt qff n ki m mpnT hst i 35. If the 3rd lord is in the 1 1th, the native will always gain in trading, be intelligent although not literate, be advcntu- rous and will serve others. Notes : One will have an emaciated body with the 3rd lord’s position in the 1 1th house. He will incur misunderstan- dings with others and will not be a worthy friend. fan ?!FT WH 36. If the 3rd lord is in the 12th, the native will spend on evil deeds, will have a wicked father and will be fortunate through a female (or wife). Notes : The 3rd lord going to the 12th will bestow every happiness in life. Yet the native will feel highly miserable. This view is held by Ramadayalu. This placement will further spoil the prospects of eo-born. If Mars also joins the said 3rd lord, sustenance of co-born will be doubtful. r&lt;re r^ fr * rf q?T: » mg: u^n 37. EFFECTS OF THE 4TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES ( upto sloka 48) : If the 4th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be endowed with learning, virtues, ornaments, lands, conveyances and maternal happiness. Notes ; As a result of the 4th lord coming to occupy the ascendant, the subject will acquire incomparable, learning in various branches. However, there is an element of risk of k«cing deprived of one’s ancestral properties. After leading xiarritd life for some time, the native will give up worldly life ad may turn into an ascetic. Chapter 24 *99 5TTfft 'Rtnt «4uni['wd: \ fg *g q % Tt *TPft $tsmiP4d. U^clt 38. If the 4th lord is in the 2nd, the native will eryoy pleasures, all kinds of wealth, family life and honour and be adventurous. He will be cunning in disposition. Notes : Tho 2nd house tenanted by the 4th lord will bring abundant gains from mother and maternal relatives. The mother of the native will be able to receive great help from her brothers 'and sisters. The subject will join evil company and face some risks. He will -build up self-earned wealth and his lust for lucre will never be subdued. fe'w* 39. If the 4th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be valorous. He will have servants, be liberal, virtuous and charitable and will possess self-earned wealth. He will be free from diseases. gg*: tnsft siftcvt livon 40. If the 4th lord is in the 4th, the native will be a minister and will possess all kinds of wealth. He will be skilful, virtuous, honourable, learned, happy and be welldisposed to his spouse. g**nar^ ^ i faCTHWeft T** ^ u*s»i 41. If the 4th lord is in the 5th, the native will be happy and be liked by all. He will be devoted to Sri Vishnu, be virtuous, honourable and will have self-earned wealth. *TT§: \ ^trtsTvwTTj * 5*n: \\^\\ 42. If the 4th lord is in the 6th, the native will be devoid of maternal happiness, be given to anger, be a thief and a conjurer (or magician), be independent in action and be ill- disposed. 200 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Notes ; The native will be brought up by another female in the place of his mother. He will be careless about his own matters. He will have litigations on account of properties. His mother will be sickly in constitution and be a source of worry to the family members. He will not be welldisposed toward his mother. These are additional effects for the 6th house placement of the 4th lord in a nativity. SfTcft fasmmfaa: I fnwri *r«ra? 11*311 43. If the 4th lord is in the 7th, the native will be endowed with a high degree of education, will sacrifice his patrimony and be akin to the dumb in an assembly. Notes : When the 4th lord occupies the 7th house, the person concerned will not enjoy paternal properties. He may either lose or sacrifice the same. He will not be a householder for a long lime aqd will give up his family burdens sooner or later as a husband and as a father. Though he will achieve a great degree of education, he will be unable to express himself before a group of men. 5TRT; wfcni**U 44. If the 4th lord is in the 8th the native will he devoid of domestic and other comforts, will not enjoy much parental happiness and be equal to a neuter. Notes : The 4th lord’s relegation to the 8th house will affect the progenic ability of the native and he will not be able to carnally satisfy his spouse. His happiness in household life will not be appreciable; some problem or the other will accost him. His education will face many an obstacle. His childhood will be with many difficulties. 11**11 45. If the 4th lord is in the 9th, the native will be dear to one and all, be devoted to God, be virtuous, honourable and endowed with every kind of happiness. Chapter 24 201 TtsnrRft RTt 'r#?t i qwM fsRtfoR: irv^u 46. If the 4th lord is in the 10th, the native will eqjoy royal honours, be an alchemist, be extremely pleased, will enjoy pleasures and will conquer his five senses. Notes : One will be professionally happy and prosperous with the 4th lord in the 10th house. He will have abundant jelf-made properties. He will, however, lack maternal happiness if the 4th lord in the said house is not happily placed. ?TTWT STTrft gccrOiTTOTfJSrT: \ TTCTT TrTMOfvaU 47. If the 4th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will have fear of secret disease, be liberal, virtuous, charitable and helpful to others. Notes : Some say that the 1 1th house having the 4th lord will ensure freedom from diseases while our sage attributes secret diseases (like venereal affliction or any other diseases caused by physical union). Apparently the sage does not prefer the 4th lord (lord of happiness) getting relegated to the 11th (the 8th from the 4th), graft *T?: M*«; 11 48. If the 4th lord is in the 12th the native Will be devoid of domestic and other comforts, wiJ 1 have vices and be foolish and Indolent. Notes : Complete absense of happiness, particularly paternal, will come to pass. One will be bereft of masculine vigour. His mother is of doubtful character. These are additional effects for the 4th lord being in the 12th house, according to classical works. qlttf sraft faffFJ gSRSTTfaR: I qqfaRITO TOWRTO: inf£U 201 Rrihat Parasara flora Sastra 49. EFFECTS OF THE 5th LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 60) : If the 5th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be scholarly, be endowed with progenic happiness, be a miser, be crooked, and will steal others’ wealth. \ Notes : The native having the 5th lord in the ascendant will be of unsteady disposition. Though progenic happiness is denoted by our text, there are other exponents warning of an unpleasant situation in respect of one of the native’s sons. Qdlf'Tfl: I gtWTT HKoll 50. If the 5th lord is in the 2nd, the native will have many sons and wealth, be a pater familias, be honourable, be attached to his spouSe and be famous in the world. Notes : Maharshi Parasara praises very highly the place- ment of the 5th lord in the 2nd house and attributes worldwilde fame for the native. It is actually true in the case of Smt. Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India, whose map of birth is furnished below : born on 19th November 1917 (Monday) at 2317 hrs 1ST at Allahabad, &amp;1E54 25N28. Jup (R) 15-0 Ketu 10-34 £asi Asc 28-05 Sat 2 1-48 Moon 5-3 5 Mars i 6-2 3 Ven 20-57 Rahu 10-34 Merc 13-11 Sun4-04 Chapter 24 203 Note the lord of the 5th Mars occupying the 2nd house in Leo. The nativity has a number of splendid planetary influences apart from this. As indicated by sage Parasara, the 2nd house position of the 5th lord gave her a world-wide position and honour for a very long number of years. One can notice that the native will have ample opport- unities of shining brilliantly, whether or not on a world level, with the 2nd house placement of the 5th lord in strength and dignity. Should there further be sufficient Raja Yogas etc. as in the case of the example chart given, the native will be sure to hit the headlines of the world press. The position of the 5th lord in the 2nd will further cuase asthma and catarrh and the native will have infected lungs. He will become proud owing to his possessions. *nq vrfidH stsrfiro \ 51. If the 5th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be attacho ed to his co-bom, be a talebearer and a miser, and be always interested in his own work. Notes : The native will further be an imposter. He will not be helpful to anybody in any manner. mqfcjw *J*f3*^ TT5ftsm?sis«WT *T5: 11 * 31 ! 52. If the 5th lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, endowed with maternal happiness, wealth and intelligence, and fce a king or a minister or a preceptor. Notes : A very long life will come to the native’s mother. The native will start acquiring prosperity, right from his youth. He will also own a posh or beautiful house. These are additional effects that will come to pass with the 4th house having the 5th lord in it. *I*TT** XK: \ 53. If the 5th lord is in the 5th, the native will hava progeny if related to a bencfic; there will be no issues if malcflc 204 Brihat Parasara Mora Sastrd is related to the said 5th lord placed in 5th. The 5th lord in 5th will, however, make one virtuous and dear to friends. g*: *Knqccfts3i*T srat roftmnftsqwniioui c • 54. If the 5th lord is in the 6th, the native will obtain such sons who will be equal to his enemies or will lose them, or will acquire an adopted or purchased son. Notes : Maharshi Parasara enunciates four different possi- bilities if the 5th lord is in the 6th house. 1. Obtaining sons that will be inimical to the native : The ' 6th house denotes one’s enemies. The planet occupying the 6th will signify the class of enemy. 5th lord indicates sons, 9th lord indicates father, 4th lord indicates mother and so on and so forth. Such relative will be inimical .to the native corresponding to the rulcrship of the occupant of the 6th house. 2. Loss of children : The 6th is the maraka sthana for children as it is the 2nd from the 5th. Hence loss of progeny is denoted. 3. Obtaining an adopted issue : Normally this occurs when one is unable to have progeny of his own loins, or falls to have living children. Point 2 above answers thp circumstances. 4. Purchase of a child : This is also like adoption. Hence it follows that the situation of the 5th lord in the 6th house is not very desirable, of course excepting Saturn for Virgo ascendant. It is also not advisable for a female to have her 9th lord in the 10th house from the point of view of filial happiness. qNt t IIXXM 55. If the 5th lord is in the 7th, fhe native will be honourable, very religious, endowed with progenic happiness and be helpful to others. Notes : With the 5th lord going to the 7th house, the native will be tall in stature and will speak only truth. He will honestly serve his employer, and his dealings will be honest. He will be firm in disposition. 205 Chapter 24 * ^sqfaci: ast^U 56. If the 5th lord is in the 8th, the native will not have much progenic happiness, be troubled by cough and pulmonary disorders, be given to anger and be devoid of happiness. *mq»r *r i ?n a fasma: j^w iiit'sn 57. If the 5th lord is in the 9th, the native will be a prince or equal to him, will author treatises, be famous and will shine in his race- Notes : The placement of the 5th lord in the 9th house is a good augury for writership, authorship, editorship and the like. See the following horoscope of the most venerable Jagadguru Adi Sankaracharya. 206 Brihat Barasara Hora Sastra sitions in an endeavour tore-stand Hinduism on firm grounds are of perennial importance and his horoscope should serve a perfect example of our above rule. I have given another horoscope dealing with authorship on page 88 of “Doctrines of Suka Nadi— Retold” which is as under : Born on 21.5-1944 at 1902 hrs War time, 13N40, 79E20. Merc Ven Moon Sun Sat - Rasi Rahti Mars Jup Ketu A sc The native has authored a number of books on a subject dear to his heart. Mark the 5th lord Jupiter in exaltation in the 9th. Apart from the 5th lord being in the 9th for fame via authorship, the 7th house having the 5th loni will equally contribute to such achievements. See the horoscope of late Sri C. G. Rajan on the next page. The birth data are : bom 5th July 1894 AD as taken from his preface given to ‘Cancer Ascendant Volume* of Saptarshi Nadi series of Madras Govt. Publications. Sri C. G. Rajan did a g r eat service to the lovers of astrology by bringing out dozens of volumes on astrology in Tamil and English. He had Chapter 24 207 Mars Rahu Jup Ven 1 Sun Rasi Moon Merc Asc Sat Ketu also edited a couple of volumes in Tamil of Saptarshi Nadis on behalf of the Oriental Manuscripts Library, University of Madras. He had as well produced a couple of astronomical treatises like Siddhanta Raja Siromani (Graha Karanam) contai- ning planetary tables from 3200 BC to 3100 AD. Note the 5th lord in the 7th in his natus along with Venus. TROTHS fj? StTUft I 58. If the 5th lord is in the 10th, the native will enjoy a Rajayoga and various pleasures, and be very fhmous. Notes : For enjoying a superior degree of material bene- fits like wealth, position, fame etc. the 5th lord is the best placed in the 10th house than elsewhere. This one position with sterling qualities will equal many Rajayogas. It is a pre- requisite of course that in such a placement the 5th lord is very close to the meridian, if not exactly on the meridian, preferably with exaltation or such other dignities. If he is placed in an enemy’s house or such other afflictions tormenting him, he will prove rather adverse than a Rajayoga maker. 208 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Hi’fnr swft ftrarrn swrevre: t sW to? ?T5R«&gt; 5|5^ennff?RT: iixtu 59. If the 5th lord is in the 11th, the native will be learned, dear to people, be an author of treatises, be very skilful and be endowed with many sons and wealth. Notes : The 5th lord’s station in the 1 1th house will keep one free from misfortunes and unhappiness. He will be of helping nature. His academic achievements will be abundant. He will be happy in respect of his children, but the said 11th house should be a friendly sign for the 5th lord ( vide rule 48, p, 96 of Doctrines of Suka Nadi— Retold). If the 5th lord is inimically placed in the 1 1th house, for example the Sun in Aquarius in the 11th in the case of Aries ascendant, the progeny will be inimical to the native. However, obtainment of progeny will not be obstructed in that case even. Mi aiRT: l jfaiynfNsftswr t^°n 60. If the 5th lord is in the 12th, the native will be bereft of happiness from his own sons, will' have an adopted or purchased son. Notes : The placement of the 5th lord in the 12th in terminal house will cause various kinds of miseries in the matter of children. One may not obtain a child at all, or may incur inimical relations with his own child. Adoption will surely dome to pass if Saturn or Mercury ruling the 5th is in the 12th. In other cases, the disposition of Saturn/Mercury/Jupiter will have to be seen while the 5th lord is in the 12th. Further grave defects with the 5th lord in the 12th are difficulties in digestion and abdominal disorders. STTcft \ to iiwi 61. EFFECTS OF THE 6TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 72) t If the 6th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be sickly, famous, inimical to his own men, rich, honourable, adventurous and virtuous. Chapter 24 209 Notes : The 6th lord in the ascending sign will bring various diseases to the native. He will incur adverse effects in the matter of acquisition of progeny. Venus in Taurus ascendant will particularly give benefic results in full measure as stated. He will also not stall obtain- ment of children. There will, however, be more daughters than sons, while the first child will be a male. TTtjft ^rTT ?T?T II^^M 62. If the 6th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be adven- turous, famous among his racemen, will live in alien countries (or places), be happy, be a skilful speaker and be always interested in his own work. Notes : The native will further be skilful in dealing with hoary lore. His financial position will be somewhat shaky. He will enjoy good health. fTjni: 3TRT: 'SpM f^5*nrfairr: \ WrTT VlaKiHttlCT ||^|| 63. If the 6th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be given to anger, be bereft of courage, inimical to all of his co-born and will have disobedient servants. Notes : The 3rd house containing the 6th lord will not serve the native with intelligence at all times. To wit, he will be partly deprived of benefits due to his intelligence. He will also not be steady in disposition. m3: gtafofaa: \ fimm »I^*U 64. If the 6th lord is in the 4th, the native will be devoid of maternal happiness, be intelligent, be a talebearer, be jealous, fickle-minded and very rich. ' gmft am am Ercifom i 33ft mrof mrfma: ii^sui 210 Brihat Par asm a Hora Sastra 65. If the 6th lord is in the 5th, the native will have fluctuating finances. He will incur enmity with his sons and friends. He will be happy, selfish and kind. ftjwwrt a * i *t«t trcifoim u^n 66. If the 6th lord is in the 6th, the native will have enmity with the group of his kinsmen but be friendly to others and will enjoy mediocre happiness in matters like wealth. Notes : The native will enjoy happiness of conveyances and be free from diseases. His life span will also be consider- ably lengthy. These are additional effects for the 6th lord in the 6th itself. Tirg^tfriTcT: i un^ct: iiv»h 67. If the 6th lord is in the 7th, the native will be deprived of happiness through wedlock. He will be famous, virtuous, honourable, adventurous and wealthy. Notes : Apart from denying marital happiness, the 6th lord’s occupancy of the 7th house will dissatisfy the native in the matter of progeny. His own spouse will be his sworn enemy. 68. If the 6th lord is in the 8th, the native will be sickly, inimical, will desire others’ wealth, be interested in others’ wives and be impure (or degraded). Notes : It is not good for one’s purity of character if the 8th house is occupied by the 6th lord. The native will be ever incurring enmity with others and be not happy. He will have a green eye on others’ learning and an eye on others’ wealth. Chapter 24 2 \ \ 69. If the 6th lord is in the 9th, the native will trade in wood and stones (qiinur also means poison), and will have fluctuating professional fortunes. Notes : The Maharshi seems to suggest that one wilt deal in building construction material by sa&gt;ing that one will sell wood and stones with the 6th lord in the 9th. It will further cause ups and downs in one’s livelihood. 70. If the 6th lord is in the 10th, the native will be well- known among his men, will not be respectfully disposed to his father and will be happy in foreign countries. He will be a gifted speaker. Notes : One will be greatly valorous and learned in Sastras (or ancient lore). There will be litigations on account of ancestral properties. Dutifulness and living in foreign place will also come to pass. These are in furtherance to the sage’s views for the placement of the 6th lord in the 10th house. 71. If the 6th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will gain wealth through his enemies, be virtuous, adventurous and will be somewhat bereft of progenic happiness. Notes : One will, to some extent, be happy and to yet some extent be unhappy if the 6th lord occupies the 11th house. This is in regard to progeny. There is also a view that this position can wholly deny acquisition of a child. cRTT: iha^n 72. If the 6th lord is in the 12th the native will always spend on vices, be hostile to learned people and will torture living beings. Notes : The native will be of questionable . morality and will ever be mtent on deriving sexual pleasures from other females as well. 212 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 3TRT: *TMR3 I 5^ jnft ^RR^nfRcT u^Hii 73. EFFECTS OF THE 7TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 81) : If the 7th lord i9 in the ascendant, the native will go to others' wives, be wicked, skilful, devoid of courage and afflicted by windy diseases. Notes : The native will not be firm in his words and actions. He will impart courage in others although he himself will be bereft of courage. So say learned astrologers in the context of the ascendant being occupied by the 7th lord. SRH 3T!rft 1 ^ HFR: II'SYU 74. If the 7th lord is in the 2nd, the native will have many wives, will gain wealth through his wife and be procras- tinating in nature. Notes : This position will further give corrupt character making one addicted to many women. He will lose his wife early. His prosperity will ascend with his marriage. 3TT7T STTeft ffl I gsft jkhr g^sfq sfafa uv»xu 75. Jf the 7th lord is in the 3rd, the native will face loss of children and sometimes with great difficulty there will exist a living son. There is also the possibility of birth of a daughter (who will sustain). Notes : Three salient features in regard to progeny arc denoted by sage Parasara for the 3rd house placement of the 7th lord. Firstly, loss of children in general. Secondly, possibility of (rarely) acquiring a daughter. Lastly, no possibility of having a living son. In fine, probably a female child will live long to keep the native happy, while male children will pass away as they are born. Chapter 24 213 76. If the 7th lofd is in the 4th, the wife of the native will not be under his control. He will be fond of truth, be intelligent and religious. He will suffer from dental diseases. Notes : A disobedient wife follows the 4th house position of the 7th lord. This is Maharshi’s instruction. However, Ramadayalu states in this context thus, c rrfo^ff?*TTf*Trrr meaning that the native’s wife will brilliantly shine with chastity or devotion to husband. Lord Rama’s sacred horoscope is a classic example having Cancer ascendant with Saturn, the 7th lord, in the 4th— of course in exaltation. I do not possess even the slightest competence to say that the Maharshj's view is untenable. In this context, however, I quote a horoscope from “Saptarshi Nadi” (Volume for Tcurus ascendant). The whole Nadi was a product of intercourse between four groups of sages,, each group having seven great sages, in the benign presence of Parvati, a consort ot Lord Siva. In the seminar on Taurus ascc..dant, Parasara was also a participant. The horoscope in particular (bearing No. 25 in the original volume) was analysed by Parasara himself as one of the seven Rishis in dialogue. See the nativity : Jup Saturn Ascdt Ketu RASI Merc Sun Ven Mars Rahu Moon • 214 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Dealing with the above horoscope, Parasara describes the native's spouse thus : “she will be somewhat short- tempered. She will deliver auspicious words. She will be dear to her husband. She will live begetting fame from all the four directions. She will be fortunate. She will be free from any blemish (or Dosha). She will be dark in complexion. She will feed the needy. In beauty, she will be akin to Rathi (the extremely charming spouse of the extremely charming Cupid, the Hindu God of beauty and son of Maha Vishnu), She will possess many ornaments and be intelligent. She will be modest and will not have any desire for other men (than her spouse, i.e. the native in question).” This is how sage Parasara describes the wife of the native in question in verses 27-29 ibid. Though no direct reason has been attributed for the chastity of the spouse, we cannot ignore the disposition of the 7th lord, parti- cularly with debilitated Moon in the 7th. The 7th lord is in the 4th giving the native a spouse who would be extremely devout proving an asset to the husband. As such the view of our present sloka in regard to the spouse is at the outset defective. Thus the wife cannot be out of the control of the native. The Chaukambha edition also clearly states that the native’s wife will not be chaste, see ^TTfr^^rRrSTjrr and hence the version of our sloka is also rightly interpreted. tnrvr sraynfNRr: i 77. If tne 7th lord is in the 5th, native will be honourable, endowed with all (i.e. seven principal) virtues, always delighted and endowed with all kinds of wealth. Notes : I have observed two salient features in the 7th lord’s getting into the 5th house. These are : (1) Delay and disappointments in married life. The conjugal life seldom proves happy. (2) Severe affliction to progenic indications. Either there will be unhappiness on account of children or loss of children. The effects mentioned by the sage, viz. virtues, wealth, honour and (general) happiness will also come to pass. The happiness about marriage and progeny will visibly be absent. Chapter 24 * 215 This will further give rise to the native’s association with great people. He will be endowed with boosted spirits. 78. If the 7th lord is in the 6th, the native will beget a sickly wife, be inimical to her, given to anger and devoid of happiness. Notes : The 7th lord in the 6th will reduce the general happiness of the native apart from severely inflicting his conjugal bliss. His own health will be poor while his wife will be weak in constitution. She will equally have adverse health conditions The native will coaleasce with harlots. s it«t *rcgsnfs*?r: i ttftt STK PflqqH Hvsfcll 79. If the 7th lord is in the 7th, the native will be endowed with happiness through wife, be courageous, skilful and intelli- gent but only afflicted by windy diseases. Notes : By usiog the word in the text meaning “only”, the sage hints that the only possible defect in the 7th lord's placement in the 7tb itself will be troubles from windy diseases (like rheumatism, artheritis etc.). One undesirable quality will, however, be found in the native, contrary to no adverse indication in the text, and that is his addiction to other females. This is an exception to Venus occupying the 7th house identical with Taurus or Libra. trrcg*Ttf*5tcT: 1 m qfcf q tVwkttsfi |:tftensfq n vgm ucou 80. If the 7th lord is in the 8th, the native will be deprived of marital happiness. His wife will be troubled by diseases, be devoid of good disposition and will not obey the native. Notes : As the 7th lord goes to the 8th house, the native’s spouse will be liable to incur afflictions to her longevity. However, marriage may bring some pecuniary gains for the native. 5 16 Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra ?7T*T u4*l *TFTT**&gt;fa: ^RTW: I 5nm?rcPrn sncft jr:hc?u 81. If the 7th lord is in the 9th, the native will have union with many women, be weli-disposed to his own wife and will have many undertakings (or assignments). qj4*n**$ imn smgni \ prcr Effort iu^ii 82. If the 7th lord is in the 10th, the native will beget a disobedient wife, will be religious and endowed with wealth, sons etc. trtn *R*«ra*rnm: i ^ 5p|: lie: ^ II 83. If the th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will gain wealth through his wife, be endowed with less happiness from sons etc. and will have daughters. Notes : If the 7th lord is in the II th house, there is a possibility of the native losing his children to his grief. He will obtain (more) daughters. His own sons will be hostile to him and will cause him no happiness. Living son also seems to be very remote a probability. TTT^T vfri: ^7 \ nmfsfa *T*Tsfatt *TOI Me: VI I 84. If the 7th lord is in {the 12th, the native will incur penury, be a miser and his livelihood will be related to clothes. His wife will be a spendthrift. Nrat ipjrt^cT: u^km 85. EFFECTS OF THE 8TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upio sloka 96) : If the 8th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be devoid of physical felicity and will suffer from wounds. He will be hostile to gods and brahmins (or religious people). 217 Chapter 24 «R 5T^T H vHRft UcVl 86. If the 8th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be devoid of bodily vigour, will enjoy a little wealth and will not regain lost wealth. ’Sngwtej *T I *11^^ 9tn&lt;&lt;rnri: llc'all 87. If the 8th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be devoid of fraternal happiness, be indolent and devoid of servants and strength. HcctU 88. If the 8th lord is in the 4th, the child will be deprived of its mother. He will be devoid of a house, lands and happiness and will doubtlessly betray his friends. Notes : Maharshi Parasara uses the word “fspjj” meaning child. Hence it is apparent that the native will lose his mother in the very childhood if the 8th lord is in the 4th house. ¥[?nn*F&lt;R ST^TTERt \ ^Tsr«&gt; Safari: He; tn 89. If the 8th lord is in the 5th, the native will be dull- witted, will have limited number of of children, be ldnglived And wealthy. Notes : One’s financial acquisitions, though abundant, will hot be steady and be subjected to fluctuations. Though his intentions and aetions will be bona fide, they will go unrecogni- zed. He will not be steady in disposition and will off and on change his line of thinking. He will not enjoy filial bliss. These are additional hints for the 8th lord’s stationing in the 5th house at birth. ^ttvir stor ntoii 218 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 90. If the 8th lord is in the 6th, the native will win over his enemies, be afflicted by diseases and during childhood will incur danger through snakes and water. „ Notes : The position of the 8th lord in the 6th house is a sureshot of success over enemies and in litigations. The native will be reduced to danger through snakes, scorpions etc. during childhood. Afterwards he will be free from such calamities. However, this portion is not very favourable for one’s health. This also indicates a long span of life. qrcmspq wntoi tort i siiqiT * 91. If the 8th lord is in the 7th, the native will have two wives. If the 8th lord is conjunct a malefic in the 7th there will surely be downfull in his business (qr livelihood). Notes : The 7th house being occupied by the 8th lord is a forerunner of difficulties in married life. There will be want, of understanding between the native and his spouse. The constitut- ion of the spouse will be quite weak and she will always be subjected to uncertainties or dangers. Outwardly the native may pose to be God-fearing, But he will not be sincerely devoted to the Almighty. He will be an expert in stealing others’ things. tJcJTHW* TfldT qtqftjqT I 92. If the 8th lord is in the 8 th the native will be long- lived. If the said planet be weak being in the 8th, the longevity will be medium, while the native will be a thief, be blameworthy and will blame others well. Notes : In remaining in the 8th itself, the 8th lord should be quite strong in Shadbala, so the native will be long-lived. If he is bereft of strength, the native will not enjoy full span of life. The 8th house in occupation by its own lord will give a spouse with questionable character. However she will be a source of financial help to the native by her own earnings or Chapter 24 219 properties. The native will inherit ancestral properties as well. The evil effects cited above will not come to pass for an Aquarius native having Mercury in exaltation in the 8th in Virgo. He should be within the first half of Virgo to stall the said evils. In the later portion of Virgo his potence considerably decreases. 3?ch*?t ^ \ 93. If the 8th lord is in the 9th, the native will betray his relig on, be a heterodox, will beget a wicked wife and will steal others’ wealth. Notes : The native will suffer frequent misfortunes and downfalls. His prosperity will not be unobstructed and he will find it difficult to cope up with professional adversities. His father will suffer a cut in longevity. His understanding with his father will be deficient. Progenic happiness will not come to him in full measure. His wife will be of “questionable birth”. She will go to other men and beget progeny. The native himself will be addicted to others’ housewives. These are additional effects of the 8th lord occupying the 9th house in a nativity. In the case of a Gemini native, Saturn occupying the 9th house (his Moolatrikona) will not produce these malefic effects. But his benefic tendencies will be quite meagre. 94. If the 8th lord is in the I Oth the native will be devoid ol paternal bliss, be a tale-bearer and be bereft of livelihood. If there is an aspect in the process from a benefic, then these evils will not mature. Notes : There is a school of thought to say that the 8th lord occupying the 9th house will cause the deaths of parents right in ihe native’s boyhood. Apparently one will not enjoy parental happiness for a long duration. This placement of the 8th lord will produce all kinds of miseries in livelihood, fortunes, fame, properties and the like. According to Maharshi Parasara, if the 8th lord in the 10th house is (well) related to a benefic, no evils will come to pass. 220 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra ?ttt^ smfsnr i ZT&amp;i f^Tcf 5TOTfa^ 1^5(11 95. If the 8th lord along with a malefic is in the 11th, the native will be devoid of wealth and will be miserable in boyhood but happy later on. Should the 8th lord be in conjunction with a benefic and be in the 11th, the native will be long-lived. Notes : The 8th lord in the 1 1th house, unless related to a malefic, particularly by conjunction, will not deprive the native of financial benefits. If he is alone in the 11th, he will not prove that bad in this respect. Moreover, for Taurus ascendant, Jupiter in the llth house is not baneful. And for Scorpio ascendant, Mercury in the 1 lth will prove a highly favourable bargain in the matter of wealth, fame, knowledge etc. SWTTTOT sTjiTfter 1 96. If the 8th lord is in the 12th, the native will spend on evil deeds and will incur a short life. More so, if .there be addi- tionally a malefic in the said house. 5TTcft | Safari: Retail 97. EFFECTS OF THE 9TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (up to sloka 108) : If the 9th lord is in .the. ascendant, the native will be fortunate (or prosperous), will be honoured by the king, be virtuous, Charming, ; learned and honoured by the public. Notes : If the 9th lord is in the rising sign.ithe native will hold a very high position which will bring him wealth and fame. He will be free from enemies. A female .having the said position will prove a worthy housewife and be rid Of afflictions from other planetary sources. [(These effects .will not be enjoyed by a Scorpio native.) 'TfrSrft STd^FrTVl: I »im^ u$.mi Chapter 24 221 98. If the 9th lord js in the 2nd, the native will be a scholar, be dear to all, wealthy, sensuous and endowed with happiness from wife, sons etc. snrft \ c a o 99. If the 9th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be endowed with fraternal blies, be wealthy, virtuous and charming. TftfffT: l|? o oil 100. If the 9th lord is in the 4lh, the native will enjoy houses, conveyances and happiness, will have all kinds of wealth and be devoted to his mother. g^facTTeft uftt 0*T?e*TT HT: H?c?(| 101. If the 9th lord is in the 5th the native will be endo- wed with sons and prosperity, devoted to elders, bold, charitable and learned. *TT3pTTf3*J^§fa: srefa: qtff'T: HIT It? o^(| 102. If the 9th lord is in the 6th, the native will enjoy meagre prosperity, be devoid of happiness from maternal relatives and be alw-ays troubled by enemies. ' o qftfanilMTfa fSMtiTlH; ll?o^H 103. O Brahmin, If the 9th lord is in the 7th, the native will beget happiness after marriage, be virtuous, and famous. Notes : One will further be able to achieve success in all his undertakings. His prosperity will pick up after marriage. The native will be not well disposed to his father. These are additional effects due to the 7th house placement of the 9th lord. 222 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra TTR*TT*1fI qR&gt; W%rT l to ^ &gt; cft*T ^TrTfir 5TTq^ II 9 o ifll c o * * 104. If the 9th lord is in the 8th, the native will not be prosperous and will not enjoy happiness from his elder brother. Notes : Having got the 9th lord relegated to the 8th house, one will be devoid of fortunes. He will face failures in all his undertakings. He will not achieve professional and financial stability. His father will primarily incur a cut in longevity. The native will be a source of miseries to his elder brothers/ sisters. A blessing in disguise with this position is a probable inheritence of patrimony by the native. ws 351110x11 105. If the 9th lord is in the 9th, the native will be endo- wed with abundant fortunes, virtues and beauty and will enjoy much happiness from co-born. Notes : Should the 9th lord be in the 9th itself, one will obtain fraternal bliss. His co-bron will amass fortune. The native himself will own properties in a large scale. He will achieve easy success in each and every undertaking. His father will play a significant role in his (i.e. the native’s) progress. The native’s mother will be free from diseases. The native will be nurtured by his maternal grand parents. 3fTrft 1 106. If the 9th lord is in the 10th, the native will be a king or equal to him or be a minister or an army chief, be virtuous and dear to all. Notes : The sage suggests that with the 9th lord going to the 10th the native will be either a king or a minister or an army chief. Apparently, if the 9th lord is prepotent, one will enjoy royal status. The strength proportionately falling down will make the native enjoy comparatively lesser positions. 223 Chapter 24 wnft * t m wim * «R*mft faft i Weft tJTpjRTfiT ^ gitT*Wffa II?o\3J| 107. If the 9th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will enjoy financial gains day by day, be devoted to elders, virtuous and meritorious in acts. Notes : The native who has the 9th lord in the 11th house will see increasing phases of fortunes and prosperity. The 9th lord indicates one's prosperity and the 1 1th house gains. Hence the said position is extremely favourable for material uplift- ment. This will, however, not apply to Gemini ascendant having Saturn, the 9th lord, in the 11th house. On the contrary it will prove highly detrimental for the prosperity of the native. Additional effects due to the 9th lord’s placement in the 11th house (excepting of course Gemini ascending), high honours, spiritual success, metaphysical achievements and gains through father. wfttft aurHwtwft mnrfrrfiwft wim i WTOTZT ttftft fact? 11? o ell 108. If the 9th lord is in the 12th, the native will incur loss of fortunes, will always spend on auspicious acts and will become poor on account of entertaining guests. Notes : The 9th lord in the 12th is said to cause lo&amp;sof wealth on account of entertaining guests. In the modern .context lavish parties will take this role. The native will land in financial difficulties on account of throwing parties and the like. This position is not also auspicious for the happiness of elder brothers and sisters. 'juot tj^Tlrft H*ft vftff l STcft fftft JTSft 'TTOT? U?o£U 109. EFFECTS OF THE 10TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 120) : If the 10th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be scholarly, famous, be a poet, will incur diseases in boyhood and be happy later on. His wealth will increase day by day. 224 Brihat Parasara Hora Sasfra . Notes : The 10th lord occupying the ascendant is very .favourable for riches giving a royal status to the native. The following figure belongs to Sarabhoji Maharaja of Tanjore, Rahu Moon Sat RASI Jup Ven Ketu Mars Ascdt Sun Merc In the above chart, the lord of the lOih is Mercury who is in the ascendant in own sign. The 2nd lord Venus is in the company of exalted Jupiter. The native amassed a vast kingdom and wealth. He established the Tanjore Saraswati Mahal Library which is a treasure-house of literature of ancient lore. The ascendant having the 10th lord in it will contribute to the native’s becoming well educated and learned. It will also make one widely famous. If there are no Balarishta combinations and if the 6th lord is sufficiently favourable, then the position of the 10th lord in the ascendant will not cause diseases in boyhood. Trntji TOT* \ T HU R ft aRTFUra f'HTfeg’SSTSRT: 11?? oil Chapter 24 225 110 Tfthe 10th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be wealthy, virtuous, honoured by the king, charitable and will enjoy happiness from father and others. Notes : The placement of the 10th lord in the 2nd will give immeasurable financial success through one’s own profession or calling, apart from a large scale patrimony. (This will be more effective for Gemini ascendant having the 10th lord Jupiter in the 2nd in exaltation). His fame will spread in all comers, according to other classical ^exponents. The horoscope of Mr. Morarji Desai, an erstwhile Prime Minister of India, as given below, is a perfect example to depict professional fame etc. Born on 29.2.1896 atl258 hrs (LMT) in Bulsar(Gujrat). Asc Sun Rahu RASI Jup Mars Merc Venus Moon Ketu Saturn The 10th lord is in the 2nd house speaking for the wide political fame he earned through a number of years. He also occupied the coveted position of Prime Minister. He has been a successful person both financially and professionally. The exaltation of Saturn in a trine, and of Jupiter in the 2nd have been key factors in the native's success. The 11th house receives its own lord’s aspect from exaltation sign giving gains in a better manner. 226 Brihat Parasara flora Sastra Also refer to the birth chart of Mrs 'indira Gandhi, where Mars ruling the 10th house is in the 2nd house. Except for a brief period, she continues to ' be the Prime Minister from 1966 onwards. Her fame has spread in all corners and she is considered to be one of the most skilful administrators. snffy i N « c o fsreuft g«nFq;;r: 111. If the 10th lord is in the 3rd, the native will enjoy happiness from brothers and servants, be valorous, virtuous, eloquent and truthful. . 'tfHTT TcTM yrsTR n^rrftr 1 1 ? \ ^ 1 1 112. If the 10th lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, be always interested in his mother’s welfare, will lord over conveyances, lands and houses, be virtuous and wealthy. WIT SROTT gjRRfq|l??3U 113. If the 1 0th lord is in the 5th, the native will be endowed with alt kinds of learning, be always delighted and be wealthy and endowed with sons. Notes : The lord of the 10th house occupying the 5th house will prove a great asset for the native bestowing abundant wealth which will never leave him. He will have a number of children. There will seldom be filial grief for him. He will always move among wealthy people. In the matter of learning and education, sky is the limit in his case. He will be very truthfully disposed and command all material comforts of life. Dr. Rabindranath Tagore's natus is given below which will describe his radiant intelligence, brilliant learning and unpara- lleled poetic abilities. Birth data : born May 7, 1861 at 3.15 AM 1ST at 22N35 88E30. Note the 10th lord Jup'ter in exaltation in the 5th obtaining a potential status over other planets in the horoscope. Jupiter’s Chapter 24 227 Moon Ascdt Sun Merc Venus Mars Ketu RASI Jup Sat Rahu powerful aspect on his depositor, the Moon, lent that trem- endous mental impetus to the native that he was a pre- eminent poet with a matchless learning. Mercury ruling the 4th house is unaffected by the Sun, being 16° apart. sifTtsfq snrfa: qfcftflff: n ^ ; VII 114. If the 10th lord is in the 6tb, the native will be bereft of paternal bliss. Although he may be skilful he will be bereft of wealth and be troubled by enemies. Notes : The 10th lord going to the 6th house is a dire blemish for professional and monetary stability. One will undergo frequent changes in his calling and will - suffer losses therein. His financial growth will be severely paralyzed. He will have a number of enemies contributing to his decline. He will incur lasting diseases. An advantage, however, will come to him in the form of extreme intelligence. yJTTR WFift 115. If the 10th lord is in the 7th, the native will be 228 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra endowed with happiness through wife, be intelligent, virtuous, eloquent, truthful and religious. wtrt: qtfrr5mitr&gt;T: nnv* 116. If the 10th lord is in the 8th, the native will be devoid of (good) acts, longlived and intent on blafting others. Notes : The 10th lord’s placement in the 8th house denotes potence of longevity. The 10th lord is the indicator of one’s Karmic credit and his strength or his position in the 8th house will contribute to great longevity. That the 10th lord should be considered akin to Saturn in the matter of life span is a fact tanght to us by Maharshi Parasra, vide sloka 3 in ch. 19. The rule as per the present verse will, however, not apply to Gemini ascendant horoscope having Jupiter in the 8th (in fall) .which will in fact adversely affect longevity. And a Leo native will be a significant beneficiary with Venus in the 8th in exaltation and will enjoy a considerably long span ol life. FTTnm *n?ft XRIT I 117. If the 10th lord is in the 9th, one born of royal scion will become a king whereas an ordinary native will be equal to a king. This placement will confer wealth and progenic happiness etc. qnFpft TRlHiraW | 'A 4 *TF: 11* $511 118. If the 10th lord is in the 10th, the native will be skilful in all jobs, be valorous, truthful and devoted to elders. TTiW WmTOVi aiTcft I &lt;jV|qlKWlfM HftTTOTT ?TTT || ^ 5.U 119. If the 10th lord is in the 11th, the native will be endowed with wealth, happiness and sons. He will be virtuous, truthful and always delighted. Chapter 24 ~ ^ if?? ®*W: I f5T??T ^TWTfa fwfeRCIJt3*U 120. If the 10th lord is in the 12th, the native will spend through royal abodes (i e. kings), will have fear from enemies and will be worried in spite of being skilful. Notes : Expenditure through royal abodes possibly indi- cates that the native will lose on taxes, fines etc. to the government as the 12th house is involved. Otherwise, this can mean luxurious political expenses. This placement will cause troubles in financial matters through the Government. mrot arrcr; srfNtf i Jpftrafaft HTT 5Tm-**rfo?r: at tin 121. EFFECTS OF THE 11TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (opto sloka 132) : If the 1 1th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be genuine in disposition, be rich, happy, even- sighted, be a poet, be eloquent in speech and be always endowed with gains. Notes : When the 11th lord is in the ascendant, the native will always befriend the virtuous and reject evil associations. He will be extremely prosperous after marriage. * tTTRTT *TTcf: 1 122. If the 11th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be endo- wed wkh all kinds of wealth and all kinds of accomplishments, be charitable, religious and always happy. HTH*! 3TRT: \ spfl tsnggwrtcT: 123- If the 11th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be skilful in all jobs, wealthy, endowed with fraternal bliss and may sometimes incur gout pains. frmfi qismprcsT i 3TT?ft n^ftT^rrf^: lit 124. If the 11th lord is in the 4th, the native will gain 230 Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra from maternal relatives, will undertake visits to shrines and will possess happiness of house and lands. 125. If the 1 ltn lord is in the 5th, the native’s children will be happy, educated and virtuous. He will be himself religious and happy. WPTOT fHrAT^i 5TTtft 1 Jwr«t ^ qfttffar: nt^u 126. If the 11th lord is in the 6th. the native will be afflicted by diseases, be cruel, living in foreign places and troubled by enemies. Notes : The placement of the 11th lord in the 6th house will augment the chances of ‘acquisition’ of diseases. The native will incur defects of hearing organ. (In Aquarius, the 11th lord will particularly afflict a Virgo native . with dire deafness.) The native will be so selfish that for his own happi- ness he will leave his family members and live away from his home or hometown. Servitude will befit him rather than an independent profession. He will often undergo financial reversals. in faq ig n : 127. If the 11th lord is in the 7th, the native will always gain through bis wife’s relatives, be liberal, virtuous, sensuous and will remain at the command of his spouse. Notes : Should the 7th house be occupied by the 11th lord, the native will always look upto and receive help from his wife’s relatives. He will be quite affluent as well. He will lack In wisdom. Judgement will lack in him in the matter of expenses and he cannot make out where to spend and where not A strong urge to seek union with others’ females will always be prevalent in him but none will bother for him. Even |iis own spouse wiil boss over him. 231 Chapter 24 vfliWr i xmw* SHUT *TT»f fcrant^H 'o ' 128. If the Ilth lord is' in the 8th, the native will incur reversals in his undertakings and will live long while his wife will predecease him. Notes : The 1 1th lord in the 8th house increases the native’s longevity. The geniture given earlier of Sri Morarji Desai having Mars in the 8th being the 11th lord bears an ample testimony to this effect. However, this rule should not be applied to Leo ascendant having Mercury, the 1 1th lord, in the 8th house in debilitation. mqqret * trcrfuq: n^tii 129. If the 11th lord is in the 9th the native will be fortunate, skilful, truthful, honoured by the king and be affluent. gunP^: i fasrattrHt atanr 130. If the 11th lord is ih the 10th, the native will be honoured by the king, be virtuous, attached to his religion, intelligent, truthful and will’subdue his senses. Note's : with the 11th lord occupying the 10th house, one will be primarily intent on public welfare and redemption. He will delve deep into the core of his religion and bring out myriad truths to educate the public. He will create an epoch of his own which will go into the pages of history. The sacred horos- cope of Sri Bhakti Vedanta Swamiji is a fitting example as given below. He was born on September 1st, 169G AD, at 1530 hrs at Calcutta. In this chart, the i 1th lord Venus is in the 10th in debili- tation and in the company of the 10th lord Mercury in exaltation. The Neechabhanga occurring to Venus enhanced his merits and took him to matchless heights. Swamiji had many other brilliant features in his horoscope, viz. Saturn in peak in the Ilth house, the 3 important planets— the Sun, Ketu and Jupiter — all effectively joining in the 9th house (and being in one and same Navamsa) and so on and so forth. He founded Hare 232 Brihat Parasara Nora Sastra Moon Mars Rahu | — ‘ Sun Jup Ketu Lagna Sat Merc Venus ^ name or Lora Krishna to the West. He brought out in print his commentaries on Vedas G.ta etc. in uncountable volumes. Above ail, he is a magic word on the bps of millions. 15 It is my experience that a planet with cancelled debilitation would give such splendid results keeping other planets behind and make the world conscious of such a native. It is of course a prerequisite that the ascendant lord should primarily be strong enough. In the case of Swamiji, the soul stands well-fortified and robed with identity with the praise-worthy Lord Mark the prepotent 9th house containing ascendant lord along with the Sun and Kelu. The reader can always note that if the 1 1 th lord is well disposed in the 10th house, the native concerned will dedicate his life for others and be devoid of desires to meeting personal ends. That is the moral we learn from the_Swamiji’s radix, fito: *rar&lt;r 4^3 &lt; it U- I3 *j the Ilth lord * s in thc Hth, the native will gain in all his undertakings while his learning and happiness will be on the increase day by day. 233 Chapter 24 *T?m«5r mui: ^5S}««WTW: &lt;l?^n 132. If the 11th lord is in the 12th, the native will always expend on good deeds, he sensuous, will have many wives and will befriend barbarians (or foreigners in general). WTeft s*T«mlert \ 133. EFFECTS OF THE 12TH LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 144) : If the I2th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be a spendthrift, be weak in constitution, will suffer from phlegmatic disorders, and be devoid of wealth and learning. Notes : Phlegmatic disorders relate to breathing troubles, lung disorders, tuberculosis etc. With the 12th lord going to the rising sign, the native will always suffer from one disease or the other. He will ever be in the grip of fear of death. He will acquire many vices. His undertakings will not yield success. aifaur: fsnreT?&gt; * g«ra^mfar?r: u^yh 134. If the 12th lord is in the 2nd, the Dative will always spend on auspicious deeds, be religious, will speak sweetly and be endowed with virtues and happiness. , ,. l35 ‘ Ifthc 12th lord is in the 3rd, the ^native will be devoid &lt;*f fraternal bliss, will hate others and will promote self- nounshment (i.e. be quite selfish). ***** *r§: devn ; ! 36 ; If the J 2th ilord is in the 4th the native will be devoid of maternal happiness and will day by day accrue losses in respect of lands, conveyances and houses. 234 Brihat Parasara Mora Sastrd olj^?T Hrrm^ HrTfagTfqqfam: I o -a * sturcercn rflqfeq&lt;T*t tcii^oii 137. If the 12th lord is in the 5th, the native will be bereft of sons and learning. He will spend as well as visit shrines in order to beget a son. ' arm: TOPHkgRlI ^ "rcsrranmt ?tt: 138. If the 12th lord is in the 6th, the native will incur enmity with his own men, be given to anger, be sinful, miserable and will go to qthers’ wives. aqtrt 5R$5f: *RT I ?r*q wrftnsr q* TOjtaTf'mftRi: iiikn 139. If the 12th lord is in the 7th, the native will incur expenditure on account of his wife, wilt not enjoy conjugal bliss and will be bereft of learning and strength. sqSrtf armt srTVHf^: rmi \ fwnT N H?VoH 140. If the 12th lord is in the 8th, the native will always gain, will speak affably, will enjoy a medium span of life and be endowed with all good qualities. Notes : By ‘medium life’ it is meant to denote a span of life of 60 years. So to say the 12th lord in the 8th will not be in a position to contribute to higher bracket of longevity. 141. If the 12th lord is in the 9th, the native will disho- nour his elders, be inimical even to his friends and be always intent on achieving his own ends. cqNr TT'i’qqmrq sqqt \ .femtsfa Htpr rT?q f| 3TRT^ ll^ll 142. If the 1 2th lord is in the 10th, the native will incur expenditure through royal persons and will enjoy only moderate paternal bliss. 235 Chapter 24 wjitfr $rrfa: srarnrih q*®T Tfwf E*q qr5Tf^o*TO?l qr:tl?v^h 143. If the 12th lord is in tha 1 1th, the native will incur losses, be brought up by others and will sometimes gain through others. Notes : One will face obstacles in begetting a child if the 12th lord occupies the 11th house. He will at last adopt a child. nTtm ^mrrfsppf » q SRtrsnsi mu 144. If the 12th lord is in the 12th, the native will only face heavy expenditure, will not have physical felicity, be iritable and spiteful. ^ qjfaa fan ! *srTq&gt;*pn tircnufftn|ii tviiii fgTPTTftlPI qriFI fqfqcqtqqqT q«W» ^jqq^qVsqtahr: snmrihiwit' fqficrTTOftg T,?Tidfid: snfarq^CTqq ( 3qri qTqffqrTRT ^ ^i^vimt q*T qqru?v&lt;;u 145-148. MISCELLANEOUS : O Brahmin, those are the effects of house lords which are to be deduced considering their strengths and weaknesses. In the case of a planet owning two bhavas, the results are to be deducted based on its two lordships (for the same placement). If contrary results are thus indicated, the results will be nullified, while results of varied nature will come to pass. The planet will yield full, half or a quarter of the effects according to its strength being full, medium and negligible respectively. Thus I have told you about the effects due to bhava lords in various bhavas. Notes : We get important and key clue to analyse the effects of a bhava lord placed in a certain bhava. Except the Sun and the Moon, the other 5 planets own two bhavas each. In 236 Brihat Parasara flora Sastra the case of the Sun and the Moon, the results cited will come to pass. (Here also one should give due consideration to various other relative factors. Simply applying the effects without checking othet sources will lead to pitfalls.) When a planet owns two signs, its placement in a certain bhava is affected by its two lordships. For example, take the case of Saturn in the 5th house for a Pisces nptive. His position in the 5th as the 11th lord will give children and happiness through them. And as the 12th lord, he will deny progeny so that the native resorts to visiting shrines etc. in a bid to obtain a progeny. In such a contrary situation the different results mentioned for Saturn’s position in the 5th should not be straightaway declared but alternative sources like Jupiter (the significator of progery) and the Moon (the owner of the 5th house) should be looked upto. Next we are clearly instructed in regard to results of mutually different spheres. For example again take the same care of Pisces ascendant having Saturn in the 5th house. Other results mentioned for the 1 1th lord being in the 5th house are : native being religious and happy. As the 12th lord in the 5th, the result mentioned is that the native will be devoid of educa- tion. After sorting out the controversy about progeny, it should be declared that Saturn in the 5th will deprive the native born in Pisces ascendant of learning (as due to 12th lordship) and will make the native religious and happy (as the 11th lofd). WTsa^Tsnt^Twnit.* ii^vui Chapter 25 Effects Of Non -Luminous Planets ate# tun \ srsrarronifTOf * u;ti 1. Thus I have explained the effects of the seven planets viz. the Sun etc. Now I tell you about the effects of non- luminous planets. 237 Chapter 25 • fimvftsrtCT: ffiqft: t?R: 1 U*HTa ^ ffT: TTCT 1RM rv rs ' 2. EFFECTS OF DHIFMA. IN VARIOUS BHAVAS (upto sloka 13) : If Dhuma is in the ascendant, the native wjil be valiant, endowed with beautiful eyes, stupefied in disposition, unkind, wicked and highly short-tempered. Notes : Before declaring results due to placements of non- luminous planets (i.e. Dhuma etc ), the student will do well to refer to the sage's instruction in the concluding verses of the present chapter. I have given in my notes for slokas 66-69 in ch.3 details of ownership, exaltation and debilitation signs .for the 10 Upag- rahas and Muhurta planets as culled out from Kecranuru Nataraja’s Jatakalankaram. These will benefit the reader to consider lordships (or secondary lordships) of these also for each sign. For example, Gulika is ‘lord’ of Aquarius. Hence in the case of a Cancer native, he is the ‘§th lord* apart from Saturn’s candidacy for 8th lordship. Of course primary impor- tance be given to Saturn and he should not be underrated in that case. * The results due to Dhuma, Gulika etc. will mature in the Dasa periods of their depositors. For example, if Gulika is placed in Virgo, the effects due to Gulika will come to pa^s in the major and sub periods of Mercury. In giving effects Gulika is compared to Saturn, Kala to Rahu, Ardha Prahara to Mercury and Yamaghantaka to Jnpiter. The first two aje malefic in nature while the lajter two are benefics. Of all, Gulika is the most powerful in adverse results while Yamaghantaka (son of Jupiter) is the mighty benefic. aft frvrft 3. If Dhuma is in the 2nd, the native will be sickly, wealthy, devoid of a limb, will incur humiliation at royal level, be dullwitted and be a eunuch. 238 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra *tRwh 5^arf%cT: fsTtfa^: i 3THTSq&gt; *%t[||Yir 4. If Dhuma is in the 3rd, the native will be intelligent, very bold, delighted, eloquent, and be endowed with men aod wealth, fat* I ^5^ *T*5TT^ IIK.II 5. If Dhuma is in the 4th, the native will be grieved on account of being given up by his female but will be learned in all sastras, ERffat art \ 6. If Dhuma is in the 5th, the native will have limited progeny, be deviod of wealth, be great, will eat anything and be bereft of friends and Mantras. ar^ ^ fr^TTW^ \ t^IrT: flYT Ttnfa^filcT; tbdtl 7. If Dhuma is in the 6th, the native will be strong, will conquer his enemies, be very brilliant, famous and free from diseases. fatR: Hrfci qrirft 'FttTT'l I ^TrT&gt; fafNl: *RTT SRcHmil rs % 8. If Dhuma is in the 7th, the native will be penniless, be ever sensuous, skilful in goining to others’ females and be always devoid of brilliance. iftrUW: I srfsnft f^5T: rorof aft *r?q»r^ nfa n$n 9. If Dhuma is in the 8th, the native will be bereft of courage but be enthusiastic, be truthful, disagreeable, hard- hearted and selfish. Chapter 25 239 M £R*t Tjpft ?qrf?=RT: | fcq% q* w^rfj 3?a3ca*T: n$oii 10. IfDhumais in the 9th, the native will be endowed with sons and fortunes, be rich, honourablo, kind, religious and well disposed to his relatives, *&gt;*T*«i aft *T?qqqf?*m: n??n 11. If Dhuma is in the 10th, ’the native will be endowed with sons and fortunes, be delighted, intelligent, happy and truthful. UR a ^qqfTO q?TTfqcT: \ ^ &lt;TTO# t?q u ? ;^( 12. If Dhuma is in the 11th, the native will be endowed with wealth, grains and gold, be beautiful, will have knowledge of arts, be modest and be skilful in singing. qffKT: &lt;rm*rf * o^r i 13. If Dhuma is in the 12th, the native will be morally fallen, will indulge in sinful acts, be interested in others’ wives, addicted to vives, unkind and crafty. ■ ^ 'Tift ^ HFSJFft 3TTcTqr&gt; fttqlqlffrT: I q»qf fii 14. EFFECTS OF VYATIPATA IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 25) : If Vyatipata (also known in short as Pata) is in the ascendant, the native will be troubled by miseries be cruel, will indulge in destructive acts, be foolish and will be’ill- disposed to his relatives. f^r^fhfafqrHTFT qTrRi5T% I ffffTr*TT qR^rPTf II ^ 1 H 5 -J7r ipata -^ 1 ' n . the2nd ’ the native wiI1 be morally crooked be bilious will enjoy pleasures, be unkind but grateful be wicked and sinful. s 240 Brihat Parasara Ilora Sastra fNrcsrsft T^i&gt; stctt TT^t-nr: i ^stt^ 71 % ^TT'it?f&gt; 16. IfVyatipata is in the 3rd, the native will be firm in disposition, be a warrior, be liberal, very rich, dear to king, and be head of an army, ?REr5tnf{JHTTTOSrT: HrTfltWRqqfe I « ttt 7T3RRI ^TRTfsr^r ^:u?\su 17. IfVyatipata is in the 4th, the native will be endowed with relative* etc. but not sons and fortunes. Sfe"! ^7%77?T: 71% 73^7% I •o *7rf7tfT0m«yrcft f?R777: 11^711 18. If Vyatipata is in the 5th, the native will be poor, be charming in appearance, will have imbalances of phlegm, bile and wind, be hard-hearted and shameless, wgcsro tfqfrTFTf «T l fq^T: TTHtT: 7T&amp; *177% ^rf?T 19. IfVyatipata is in the 6th, the native will destroy his enemies, be physically rn'ighty, skilful in use of all kinds of weapons and in arts, and be peaceful in disposition. g:R%JTcT: I 7T% 7ivT7^ 7&gt;T7t f%vTI*T: 'TOft^U^oll 20. If Vyatipata is in the 7th, the natiue will be bereft of wealth, wife and sons, will subdue to females, be miserable, sensuous, shameless and friendly to others. fTVHieftt f7^7*^ |%7&gt; ( 7c7f%7% fp*% 7T% TWTtSTTfT'RrT: 21. If Vyatipata is in the 8th, the native will have defor- mity of eyes, be ugly, unfortunate, spiteful^, to Brahmins and be troubled by disorders of blood. Chapter 25 241 wH 'trmI ^ f^tfsnTT^ fs«r?r*: 113311 22. If Vyatipata is in the 9th, the native will have many kinds of business and many friends, be very learned, well- disposed to his wife and be eloquent. 'TTrRfsf f^r *n?urr?ft l^rem: 113311 23. If Vyatipata is in the 10th, the native will be rich, religious, peaceful, skilful in religious acts, very learned and farsighted. smaunwH nvft wwul 3ITT^&gt; »TT^ ^T*HT^ tffo U^VII 24. If Vyatipata is in the I Ith, the native will be extremely opulent, be honourable, truthful, firm in policy, endowed with many horses and be interested in singing. * sqprqfstft ajift err i ir m?? fajq) 113 x 11 25. If Vyatipata is in the 12th, the native will be given to anger, associated with many activities, disabled, irreligious and will hate his own relatives. flRTrT: TTRft ER3FT I TfTtrt 3T?TT 3JTOT gRRH: \\^\\\ 26. EFFECTS OF PARIDHI (OR PARIVESHA) IN VARIOUS HOUSES ( upto sloka 37) : If Paridhi is in the ascendant, the native will be learned, truthful, peaceful, rich, endowed with sons, pure, charitable and dear to elders. frert ^ HHTTm: i Tfrtft wTTcT: SR*T*rf?T R5Wll3ttH 27. If Paridhi is in the 2nd, the native will be wealthy, charming, will enjoy pleasures, be happy, very religious and be a lord. 242 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra fStora?*?: frlWSH Knw: 1 ■o qfrat n^cii 28. If Paridhi is in the 3rd, the native will be fond of his wife, be very charming, pious, well disposed to his men, be a servant and be respectful of his ciders. qfra&gt; fafwf r*for&lt;T*mi ^ \ f*ni 5^ »r&gt;T*tfq&lt;f*T iihm 29. If Paridhi is in the 4th, the native will be wonder- struck, helpful to enemies as well, kind, endowed with every- thing and be skilful in singing. TOtfaFT vOflIM VTJfTtfsnWTJT HWrflvl: \ qfrtft *sfHf *r*f?r u^ou 30. If Paridhi is in the 5th, the native will be affluent, virtuous, splendorous, affectionate, religious and dear to bis wife. «reft s&lt; i g*qrrj qfN&gt; xz: \ qfrot R^'Hi«(fq qr: &gt;»W 31. If Paridhi is in the 6th, the native will be famous and wealthy, be endowed with sons and pleasures, be helpful to all and will conquer bis enemies. WeMWcH: gWjjfrft gfacST: 1 qfoft aonfere* wnnhiw 32. If Paridhi is in the 7th, the native will have limited number of children, be devoid of happiness, be of mediocre intelligence, very hard-hearted, and will have a sickly wife, 3TWH?*lfaRW: fTRTt ^W5T: I tnwfnr qfcft twvMiiw 33. If Paridhi is in the 8th, the native will be spiritually disposed, peaceful, strong-bodied, firm in decision, religious and gevtie. 243 Chapter 25 STTeft ERTCqt | &lt;TfTeft ER** *TRt II^YII 34. If Paridhi is in the 9th, the native will be endowed with sons, be happy, brilliant, very affluent, be devoid of excessive passion, be honourable and be happy with even an iota. |nrc?nc: \ qfirtrt srqfr qqqirqmreq: 113101 35. If Paridhi is in the 10th, the native will be versed in arts, will enjoy pleasures, be strong- bodied, and be learned in all sastras. gurqnrqq qfoqnT i qfra&gt; sucft q^fa^qra^ 113^11 36. If Paridhi is in the Ilth, the native will enjoy pleasures through women, be virtuous, intelligent, dear to his people and will suffer disorders of digestive fire. qfra&gt; 5iTcT&gt; wmfq mqq: *rt i g:qrqnT 1131911 37. If Paridhi is in the 12th, the native will always be a spendthrift, be miserable, firm and will dishonour elders. KWR 1 1 qgq^ qr: 113*01 38. EFFECTS OF CHAPA (INDRA DHANUS OR KODANDA) IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto . sloka 49) : If Chapa is in the ascendant, the native will be endowed with wealth, grains and gold, be grateful, agreeable and devoid of all afflictions. faqqq: qq?qi^q&gt; fqqfcft fsTOOTSfarT: 1 q ^qqR aqcKq*: iih» 39. If Chapa is in the 2nd, the native will speak affably, be very rich, modest, learned, charming and religious. 244 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra fTST I ergfa ht^ ^rrp^ *rara&gt;*p: uyoii 40. If Chapa is in the 3rd, the native will be a miser, be versed in many arts, will indulge in thieving, be devoid of some limb and be unfriendly. wwt nhRQFmW I waGtj 5 Ktftoi) erg atraftnv^u 41. If Chapa is in the 4th, the native will be happy, endowed with quadrupeds, wealth, grains etc , be honoured by the king and be devoid of sickness. *ifaiTR I Wl* ^CTcfr f^J?: Hthnf^ Mv^n 42. If Chapa is in the 5th, the native will be splendorous, far-sighted, pious, affable and will acquire prosperity in all his undertakings. IRJRTlsftttraw *jf%: l *|ootMM«i^ UY^li 43. If Chapa is in the 6th, the native will destroy his enemies, be happy, affectionate, pure and will achieve plentiful- ness in all his undertakings. 3«rci*y&gt;f: fsrer: \ ^ *T STOT: tlXXII 44. If Chapa is in the 7th, the native will be wealthy, endowed with all virtues, learned in sastras, religious, and agreeable. TOiRTtT: ^r?:: TTTTTTmEPn: | 3?c?tTf«n^ farvmw; uvstu 45. If Chapa is in the 8th, the native will be interested in other’s jobs, be cruel, interested in other's wives and be defective limbed. Chapter 25 245 ?TcT^T?fl ffTffr fiTSHTTSfo^*: I a4** ^ sfarfasra; UV^M 46. If Chapa is in the 9th, the native will perform, penance, will take to religious observations, be highly ' learned, and be famous among men. nW^rf^TFr ir^t i uvv9U 47. If Chapa is in the 10th, the native will be endowed with many sons, abundant wealth, cows, buffaloes etc. and will be famous among men. ^m*T W ^ virfffifrft 1 c s 48. If Chapa is in the 1 1th, the native will be gainful, free from diseases, very fiery in disposition, affectionate to his wife and will have knowledge of mantras and weapons (or missiles). fasfa: liven 49. If Chapa is in the 12th the native will be wicked, very honourable, evil in disposition, shameless, will go to other’s females and be ever poor. TOfasrra srsft sn^ftgor; fsw i ?Rt *T53U?r: Vf%cT IlltoH 50. EFFECTS OF DHWAJ A (i e. SIKHI OR UPAKETU) IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 61) : IfDhwajais in the ascendant, the native will be skilful in all branches of learning, be happy, efficient in speech, agreeable and be very affectionate. tWRTRtT^ Mf3T l Tfo^eft WTfFnforT: US* $11 51. If Dhwaja is in the 2nd, the native will be a good and affable speaker, be splendorous, will write poetry, be scholarly, honourable, modest and endowed with conveyances. 246 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastret q?5l}: WTVclf ^ SR^facT: t 3 fnftrfjf cfarVflf H3TTO^ MX^II 52. If Dhwaja is in the 3rd, the native will be miserly, cruel in acts, thin -bodied, poor and will incur severe diseases. g ftrfafa *rt 11x311 53. If Dhwaja is in the 4th, the native will be charming, very virtuous, gentle, interested in Vedas and be always happy. 'frVft vaifas* \ gfawt qfitmjj g^*Tfai-T?wfR?T: morn 54. If Dhwaja is in the 5th, the native will be happy, will enjoy pleasures, be versed in arts, skilled in expedients, intelligent, eloquent and will respect elders. *rEJT««TiT*T: SgSTFa*: I , frgprft v*dt sn^ *tt: *trt&gt; fagsro: moot 55. If Dhwaja is in the 6th, the native will be ominous for maternal relatives, will win over his enemies, be endowed with many relatives, valiant, splendorous and skilful. nr* g fettfjj*: mt^n 56. If Dhwaja is in the 7th, the native will be interested in gambling, be sensuous, will enjoy pleasures and will befriend prostitutes. OtRP: *RT I RrfWT% 53% jjf% TcTR^m'TSTV: UXVsU 57. If Dhwaja is in the 8th, the native will be interested in base acts, be sinful, shameless, will blame others’ will lack in marital happiness and will take others' side. Chapter 25 247 fay n fl srosmm tw: i irotf f?T%fa 5 tf% a4in#i| tMw; mtmt 58. If Dhwaja is in the 9th, the native will wear (religious) badges, be delighted, helpfully disposed to all and be skilled in religious deeds. «fnfcRtaT ^ &gt;9 ^IcTT %3I ! 1IV.6.II 59. O Brahmin, if Dhwaja is in the 10th, the native will be endowed with happiness and fortunes, be fond of females, be charitable and will befriend Brahmins. faTfafa gf^RT: l CRISTC WHT: *TT: HtTSKTailfa ll^oll 60. If Dhwaja is in the 11th, the native will ever acquire gains, be very religious, honourable, affluent, fortunate, valiant and skilled in sacrificial rites. mq&lt;b*UrT: *TT: l 61. If Dhwaja is in the 12th, the native will be interested in sinful acts, be valiant, untrustworthy, unkind, interested in others’ females and be short-tempered. STrTcT «nqTe*Tfa*T?f: *151 1 gftT% 5iH: ^m'RT^sTaiifetr: nw 62. EFFECTS OF GULIKA IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 73) : IfGulikaisin the ascendant, the native will be afflicted by diseases, be lustful, sinful, crafty, wicked and very . miserable. Notes : Out of all the non-luminous planets, Gulika deserves a special consideration in natal horoscopy as well as horary astrology. This is also a very important factor in birth rectification, and such other important calculations. If Gulika is in the ascendant, the native will incur severe defects of ejes. He will take to bad acts like thieving. He 248 brthat Parasara If ora Sastrti will disregard religion, be deprived of progeny and be dullheaded. His longevity will incur a severe cut. As already stated, in the case of each Upagraha and Muhurta Vela, the depositor should invariably be considered before coming to a conclusion. 63. If Gulika is in the 2nd, the native will be unsightly in appearance, miserable, mean, given to vices, shameless and penniless. •ii f N °i. teS ^ Sh ° U d Gu,ika ** inthe 2nd house, the native will further be unfortunate. His learning will be obstructed off and on. He will have speech defects, be harsh in speech, will live away from h» people, will not have family happiness, be untruthful, will involve in a scandal, be unfit to move among Zln?d?*tl w Da “ periods of ,tc 2od lor&lt;i face ,roub,es gum**??; ^5^ 5^% «TTfT&gt; HPret TTS^fstrT: 64. If Gulika is in the 3rd, the native will be charming in appearance, will head a village, be fond of virtuous men and be honoured by the king. Notes : With Gulika in the 3rd house, one will face destruction of co-born. Though fairly rich, he will feel distressed. 65. If Gulika is in the 4th, the native will be sickly devoid of happiness, sinful and afflicted due to windy and bilious excesses. Notes : The native will not befriend anybody but be inimical to others inclusive of his relatives. He will be devoid Of conveyances or will face risks through conveyances. He will Chapter 25 249 not have a good house to live in. His last days will be miserable and death will be painful after a long confinement, 3f?T% *TcT*n3FT ?TrfecF?i&gt; ^cT \\\\u 66. If Gulika is in the 5th, the native will not be praise- worthy, be poor, short-lived, spiteful, mean, be a eunuch, be subdued by his wife and be a heterodox. Notes : The native’s virility or . progenic ability will be significantly affected by Gulika's occupying the house of progeny. He will not be in a position to obtain issues unless Jupiter and the 5th lord are favourable, Gulika in this house will make one devoid of God-fearing tendency and be at the disposal of his wife. His personal disposition will not be agreeable, SHTHT: g&gt;c*TT£ : 67. If Gulika is in the 6th, the native will be devoid of enemies, be strong-bodied, spfenorous, liked by his wife, enthu- siastic, very friendly and helpful in disposition. Notes : When Gulika is in the 6th house, the native will be interested in controlling evil spirits and make a livelihood from such achievements. He will obtain children. He will be very courageous. There will be freedom from diseases if the 6fh hou^e containing Gulika is a benefic sign. «IPTfr^3TR: ( wtfarr: gf?r% *rer»rfN* ut-cn 6,8. If Gulika is in the 7th, the native will subdue to his $pouse, be sinful, will go to others’ females, be emaciated, qevoid of friendship and will live on wife’s (or a female’s) wealth. 7 Notes: Gulika occupying the 7th house, will make the native thrive on a female’s wealth or through the contributions of his own spouse. His conjugal life will not cause him any happiness. He will possibly have more than one marriage. 250 Erihat Parasara If ora Sastta His knowledge will not be quite much. In relation to public dealings, he will incur misunderstandings and enmity. «T: \ T?CT*I gorafacr: uhn 69. If Gulika is in the 8th, the native will be troubled by hunger, be miserable, cruel, very much short-tempered, very unkind, poor and bereft of good qualities. Notes : The native will find it difficult to get even a square meal. His face will be ugly. His eyes will be diseased. His teeth will be yellowish. He will be quite short in stature. These are additional effects as due to the 8th house position of Galika, son of Saturn. ®1‘ I gftrfc smn n^oii 70. If Gulika is in the 9th, the native will undergo many ordeals, be emaciated, will perform evil acts, be very unkind, sluggish and be a tale-bearer. Notes : If Gulika is in the 9th house one will be devoid of paternal bliss and good fortunes His father will pass away in the native’s childhood itself. None of the native’s undertak- ings will bear fruits. tfrisnrffaci: 71. If Gulika is in the 10th, the native will be endowed with sons, be happy, will enjoy many things, be fond of worshi- pping gods and fire and will practise meditation and religion. Notes : The placement of Gulika in the 10th house, will prove favourable for Yoga, Meditation and such other achieve- ments. The native, at one stage, will turn into a heterodox and discard his religious code. STHRT ^ Tel: \ gf?r% fftarg: itv^u 251 Chapter 25 ' 72. If Gulika is in the 1 1th, the native will enjoy women of class, be a leader of men, be helpful to his relatives, be short in stature and be an emperor. Notes : If Gulika is in the 1 1th house, the subject will be in the company of many females. He will be devoid of good character. He will enjoy progenic happiness, wealth status etc. and be charming in appearance. 5^ TfcWUVs^ll 73. If Gulika is in the 12th, the native will indulge in base deeds, be sinful, defective-limbed, unfortunate, indolent, and will join mean people. Notes : Gulika's tenancy in the 12th house at birth will bring innumerable misfortunes and cause loss of wealth on evil missions. One will, however, enjoy progenic happiness. effwft fWt Wf?T 1 s ppfr re ft $*1^ fW ll»YU 74. EFFECTS OF PR AN A P ADA'S POSITION WITH REFERENCE TO THE ASCENDANT (upto sloka 85) : If Pranapada is in the ascendant, the native will be weak, sickly, dumb, lunatic, dull wilted, defective-limbed, miserable and emaciated. Notes : Pranapada is a special ascendant. How to calcu- late this special sensitive point could be found on p. 47 supra. Pranapada will fall in a certain degree and its relation with referance to natal ascendant will portend many an event as tersely shown in the present 12 verses. ageTRft wgroft l IHsHU 75. If Pranapada is in the 2nd, the native will be endowed with abundant grains (rice, wheat etc.), abundant wealth, abundant attendants, abundant children and be fortunate. 252 Brihat Parasara flora Sasira fersft *T9*rqTg&lt;?dl i 76. If Pranapada is in the 3rd, the native will be injurious, (or mischievous), proud, hard-hearted, very dirty and be devoid of respect for elders. STR: HfirqTg \ gtf TTPm: srpir q fl?!Rc&lt;TT: |(vs\9|| 77. If Pranapada is in the 4th, the native will be happy, friendly, attached to females and elders, soft and truthful, WtSr?TT** [ sml qqfTTqqqf^: llvsctU 78. If Prartapada is in the 5th, the native will be happy, will do good acts, be kind, and very affectionate. qes ft at fqrrTlJjqigTq wnvstu 79. If Pranapada is in the 6th, the native will be subdued by his relatives and enemies, be sharp, vyili have defective digestive fire, be wicked, sickly, affluent and shortlived. sn^rr* irrcreq; ^fcqRimoii 80. If Pranapada is in the 7th, the native vyili be green- eyed ever libidinous, fierce in appearaqpe, be not worth respect and be ill-disposed. * “ * «T&gt;fsq: . .. 81, If P fan apada is in the 8th, the flgtive wi|| be afflicted by diseases, be troubled and will incur misery on apcoqnt of the king, relatives, servants and sons. ERqPTR: fifqjjta I' STW ?WS|8 ft fro"*: „ c?l , Chapter 25 253 82. If Pranapada is in the 9th, the native will be endowed with sons, be very rich, fortunate, charming, will serve others and be not wicked but be skilful. tftifa-FT i llc^u 83. If Pranapada is in the 10th, the native will be heroic, intelligent, skilful, be an expert in carrying out royal orders, aDd* will worship gods. sirafr lifter | srm iiqvn 84. If Pranapada is in the 11th, the native will be famous, virtuous, learned, wealthy, fair-complexioned and attached to mother. jfljrrgft fsffqt f^si^tjt ^ 5TTWT TTpjft 85 If Pranapada is in the 12th, the native will be mean, wicked defect^e-hrahed, will hate Brahmins and relatives and will suffer from eye diseases or be one-eyed. a«TT tJTft ST^TTOFIT fnf^T cfdn *RtfW*T Mc^ll 8 ^’ 87 - 0 Brahmin, these are the effects for Dhooma etc (and Pranapada ascendant). Before declaring these results, effects of the Sun and other planets should be wisely conceived by their positions, relations and aspects apart from their strength or weakness. ^e are advised to look upto the Sun and others while declaring the effects due to Dhooma, Gulika etc. So to say the depositors of Dhooma etc. Should be scrutinized to know the extent of effects. For example if Gulika is due to give bad effects, but his depositor is well-aspected, well-placed or well-related, the evils are minimised. Conversely if favourable ‘ Drihat Parasara Ilora Sastra 254 effects are due to Gulika etc. the weakness or adverse place- ment of the respective depositor will not allow maturity of such good effects. Another hint we take from these two verses is : We should balance the results due to Dhooma, Gulika etc. with the results due to the planets from Sun to Saturn (and of course the nodes). For example, Gulika is in the llth and good effects are due. If a planet posited in the same llth denotes contrary results, then the strength of the two will lead to correct estimation of the situation. 3T«r IR^II Chapter 26 Evaluation of Planetary Aspects ! s&gt;f?T0T ct*jt i sfa ^ II 1. O Glorious, it is said that aspects (of planets) and strengths are to be known in deciding the effects. How many kinds are these ? Please clarify my doubts. tn*T TtftTWTJ 3 ft?: ^5^5TT ^HI%5TI F’EIT cTt IRII fWl 9 ^ ^ I STmfcT rT*TT \\\n imi *f?T ^jgiif: SlfcTffTfeTT l FfigRrercrra T ^ sfc - : uurdwfi mnnxu « C V&gt; 2-5. PLANETARY ASPECTS : O Brahmin, I have ear- lier stated aspects based on signs. The other kind is between Chapter 26 255 planets which I detail below. 3rd and 10th, 5th and 9th, 4th and 8th and lastly 7th — on these places the aspects increase gradually in slabs of quarters i.e 1/4, 1/2, 3/4th and full. The effects (due to such aspects) will also be proportionate. All planets aspect the 7th fully. Saturn, Jupiter and Mars have special aspects respectively on 3rd and 10th, 5th and 9th, and 4th and 8th. The ancient preceptors have explained these which are ordinary (arising by mere sign positions). By subtle mathematical calculations, these aspects will have to be clearly understood as under. factor ICJR ^Tf*rR&gt;5fa?RFcRIT 1 risfclT tTiT«T»TT 1 1^11 *j7TT^ wni sfe, fWfu% m\\ r rwf vmi fsrragri i 5^fo% ft faftT ^rfVr WT^TfofagftT*ft*TT l|t;U 6-8. ASPECTUAL EVALUATIONS : Deduct the longi- tude of the aspected planet (or house) from That of the aspecting planet. If the sum exceeds six signs (or 180 deg) deduct the sum again from 10 signs (or 300 deg). Con ert the latest sum into degrees and divide by two. The resultant product is Drishti Kona or aspectual angle. If the difference (between aspector and aspected) is in excess of 5 signs, ignore, signs and multiply the degrees etc. by 2 which is the aspectual value. If the difference 19 in excess of 4 signs deduct it from 5 signs (or 150 deg) and the resultant degree etc. beeome Drishti value. If the difference is in excess of 3 signs deduct it from 4 signs (or 120 degress) and halve the product to be increased by 30 to get Drishti value. If the difference is above 2 signs ignore signs and add 15 to the degrees etc. to get Drishti value. If it is in excess of one sign, ignore Rasis and divide the degrees etc, by 2 to get Drishti value. faftT tt^t wit j[*t iRtfcf i q* fear! nett 256 Brlhat Parasara Nora Sastara wn *r&gt;nn i tsrfcr^tq tjrrfrrg*! srffT:u$oii 9-10. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR SATURN’S ASPECTS : O Brahmin, if Saturn is the aspecting planet find out the difference between him and the aspected planet; if the sum is above 1 sign, multiply the degrees etc. (ignoring sign) by 2 to get Drishti value. If the sum is above nine sings, the degrees to elapse be doubled to get aspectual value. If the sum is above 2 signs, the degrees etc. (in excess of 2 signs) be halved and deducted from 60. If the sum exceeds 8 signs, add to the degrees etc, a figure of 30 to get Drishti value. In other cases, the sums be processed as explained earlier. forcT* a bWtto smtfiraT i 11. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR MARS’ ASPECTS : Deduct the longitude of Mars from that of the planet aspected (by Mars). If the sum is 3 Rasis &amp; c or 7 Rasis &amp; c, the degrees etc. (after ignoring Rasis) be reduced from 60. If it is above 2 Rasis, the degrees etc. be increased by half of it (i.e. add 50%) and superadd 15. If the sum is 6 signs, one Rupa is the value. fWrTIT 3 WOW I feyTRT ll^ll TOST | «n«TFri ^TRT^TO BT^cT ll^ll 12. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR JUPITER’S ASPECTS : Deduct the longitude of Jupiter from that of the planet aspected by him. If the resultant sum is 3 Rasis &amp; cor 7 Rasis &amp; c, halve the degrees etc. (ignoring Rasis) and increase it by 45. If the sum is 4 Rasis &amp; c or 8 Rasis &amp; c, the degrees etc. (ignoring Rasis) be subtracted from 60. This will be the aspectual value. The sum being in conformity with others than these be treated as stated earlier. Notes : Throughout this chapter and others related to calculation of strengths of planets and houses, the term .‘Virupa* Chapter 26 257 has been used which denotes ‘Shashtiamsas’ or ‘Kalas’. 60 such units make one Rupa. The planet that aspects is Drisbti Graha or the aspector. The planet that is aspected is known as Drisya Graha or the aspected. The longitude of ‘the aspected’ is to be deducted from that of the aspector. If the longitude of the aspected is lesser than that of the aspector, increase the longi* tude of ‘the aspected* by 360 to facilitate deduction, which will yield the aspectual or Drishti angle. After finding out the Drishti angles, the various quantities will have to be processed as under with the relevant principles : Rule 1. When aspectual angle is between 30 and 60 degrees, reduce 30 degrees from the resultant aspectual angle and divide by 2 to get aspectual value. Rule 2. If the aspectual angle is above 60 but below 90 degrees, reduce 60 from the aspectual angle and add 15 to get aspectual value. Rule 3. In case the aspectual angle is above 90 but less than 120 degrees the aspectual angle be reduced from 120, then halved and then increased by 30, to get aspectual value. Rule 4. If the aspectual angle is between 120 and 150 degrees, reduce the angle of aspect from 1 50 to get aspectual value, Rule5. If the aspectual angle is between 150 and 180 degrees reduce 150 from aspectual angle and double the resultant sum to get aspectual value. Rule 6. When the aspectual angle is above 180 but below 300 degrees deduct the aspectual angle from 300 and halve the resultant sum, to get aspectual value. Needless to mention there is no aspectual value if the angle is between 300 and 30 degrees. ■ For house in aspect, consider the cusp of the house, akin to a planetary degree. In the case of aspects from Saturn, Mars and Jupiter, the following additions may be noted as a simple formula. A) Mars : When the aspect angle is 90-120 degrees or 2 IQ- 249 degrees, add 15 Virupas to the value obtained from the speculum. 2^8 Brihat Parasara Hora S astro B) Jupiter : When the aspect angle is 1 20- 1 50 degrees or 240-270 degrees increase the speculum value by 30 Virupas. C) Saturn : When the aspect angle is 60-90 degrees or 270-300 degrees and 45 Virupas to the value obtained from the speculum. Without undergoing these ordeals, the student can easily find out the Drishti values on the above lines from the Speculum of Aspectual Values given below : Speculum of Aspetual Values (Computerized) Deg:Mn Vlrupa Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mn Virupa 30: 0 .00 41:30 5.75 53: 0 11.50 30:30 .25 42: 0 6.00 53:30 11.75 31: 0 '.50 42:30 6.25 54: 0 12.00 31:30 .75 43: 0 6.50 54:30 12.25 32: 0 1.00 43:30 6.75 55: 0 12.50 32:30 1.25 44: 0 7.00 55:30 12.75 33: 0 1.50 44:30 7.25 56: 0 13.00 33:30 1.75 45: 0 7.50 56:30 13.25 34: 0 2.00 45:30 7.75 57: 0 13.50 34:30 2.25 46: 0 8.00 57:30 13.75 35: 0 2.50 46:30 8.25 58: 0 14.00 35:30 2.75 47: 0 8.50 58:30 14.25 36: 0 3.00 47:30 8.75 59: 0 14.50 36:30 3.25 48: 0 9.00 ‘ 59:30 14.75- 37: 0 i 3.50 48:30 9.25 60: 0 15.00 37:30 3.75 49: 0 9.50 60:30 15.50 38: 0 4.00 49:30 9.75 61: 0 16.00 38:30 4.25 50: 0 10.00 61:30 16.50 39: 0 4.50 50:30 10-25 62: 0 17.00 39:30 4.75 51: 0 10.50 62:30 17.50 40: 0 5.00 51:30 10.75 63: 0 18.00 40:30 5.25 52: O 11.00 63:30 18.50 41: 0 5.50 52:30 11.25 64: 0 19.00 Chapter 26 259 Deh:Mn Virupa Deg;Mo&gt; Virupa Deg:Mn Vinpa 64:30 19.50 82: 0 37.00 99:30 40.25 65: 0 20.00 82:30 37.50 100: 0 40.00 65:30 20.50 83: 0 38.00 100:30 39.75 66: 0 21.00 83:30 38.50 101: 0 39.50 66:30 21.50 84: 0 39.00 101:30 39.25 67: 0 22 00 84:30 39.50 102: 0 39.00 67:30 22.50 85: 0 40.00 102:30 38.75 68: 0 23.00 85:30 40.50 103: 0 38.50 68:30 23.50 86: 0 41.00 103:30 38.25 69: 0 24.00 86:30 41.50 104: 0 38.00 69:30 24.50 87: 0 42.00 104:30 37.75 70: 0 25.00 87:30 42.50 105: 0 37.50 70:30 25.50 88: 0 43.00 105:30 37 25 71: 0 26.00 88:30 43.50 106: 0 37.00 71:30 26.50 89: 0 44.00 106:30 36.75 72: 0 27.00 89:30 44.50 107: 0 36.50 72:30 27.50 90: 0 45.00 107:30 36 25 73: 0 28.00 90:30 4475 108: 0 36.00 73:30 28.50 91: 0 44.50 108:30 35.75 74: 0 29.00 91:30 44.25 109: 0 35.50 74:30 29 50 92: 0 44.00 109:30 35.25 75: 0 30.00 92:30 43.75 110: 0 3500 75:30 30.50 93: 0 43.50 110:30 34.75 76: 0 31.00 93:30 43,25 111: 0 34.50 76:30 31.50 94: 0 43.00 111:30 34.25 77: 0 32.00 94:30 42.75 112: 0 34.00 77:30 32.50 95: 0 42.50 112:30 33.75 78: 0 33.00 95:30 ■ 42.25 113: 0 33.50 78:30 33 50 96: 0 42.00 113:30 33.25 79: 0 34.00 96:30 41.75 114: 0 33.00 79:30 34.50 97: C 41.50 11.4:30 32.75 80: 0 35.00 97-30 41.25 115: 0 32.50 80:30 35.50 98: 0 41.00 115:30 32.25 81: 0 36.00 98:30 40.75 116: 0 32.00 81:30 36.50 99 : 0 40.50 116:30 31.75 260 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Deg: Mil Vfrnpa Deg:Mn Virupa Dcg:Mn Virupa 1 17: 0 31.50 134:30 15.50 152: 0 4.00 117:30 31.25 135: 0 15.00 152:30 5.00 118: 0 31.00 135:30 14.50 153: 0 6.00 1 18:30 30.75 136: 0 14.00 153:30 7.00 119: 0 30.50 136:30 13.50 154: 0 8.00 119:30 30 25 137: 0 13.00 154:30 9.00 120: 0 30.00 137:30 12.50 155: 0 10.00 120:30 29.50 138: 0 12.00 455:30 11.00 121: 0 29.00 138:30 11.50 156: 0 12.00 121:30 28.-50 139: 0 11.00 156:30 13.00 . 122: 0 28.00 139:30 10.50 157: 0 14 00 122:30 27.50 140: 0 10.00 157:30 15.00 123: 0 27.00 140:30 9.50 158: 0 16.00 123:30 26.50 141: 0 • 9.00 158:30 17.00 124: 0 26.00 141:30 8.50 159: 0 18.00 124:30 25.50 142: 0 8.00 159:30 19.00 125: 0 25.00 142:30 7.50 160: 0 20.00 125:30 24 50 143: 0 7.00 160:30 21.00 126: 0 24.00 143:30 6 50 161: 0 22 00 126:30 23.50 144: 0 6.00 161:30 23.00 127: 0 23.00 144:30 5.50 1*2: 0 24.00 127:30 22,50 145: 0 5.00 162:30 25.00 128: 0 22.00 145:30 4.50 163: 0 26.00 128:30 21.50 146: 0 4.00 163:30 27.00 129: 0 21.00 146:30 3.50 164: 0 28.00 129:30 20.50 147: 0 3.00 ‘ 164:30 29.00 130: 0 20.00 147:30 2 50 165: 0 30.00 130:30 19.50 148: 0 200 165:30 31.00 131: 0 19.00 148:30 1.50 166: 0 32.00 131:30 18.50 149: 0 1.00 166:30 33.00 '132: 0 18.00 149:30 .50 167: 0 34.00 132:30 17.50 150: 0 .00 167:30 35.00 133: 0 17.00 150:30 1.00 168: 0 36.00 133:30 16.50 151: 0 2.00 168:30 37.00 134: 0 16,00 151:30 3.00 169: 0 38.00 Chapter 26 261 ... .... ■ ■ ■■■ &lt;ii,. Deg:Mn Vimpa Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mn Virnpa 169:30 39.00 187: 0 56.50 204:30 47.75 170: 0 40.00 187:30 56.25 205: 0 47.50 170:30 41.00 188: 0 56 00 205:30 47.25 171: 0 42.00 188:30 55.75 206: 0 47.00 171:30 43.00 189: 0 55.50 206:30 46.75 172: 0 44.00 189:30 55:25 .207: 0 46.50 172:30 45.00 190: 0 55.00 207:30 46.25 173: 0 46.00 190:30 54.75 208: 0 46 00 173:30 47.00 191: 0 54.50 208:30 45.75 174: 0 48.00 191:30 54.25 209: .0' 45 50 174:30 49.00 192: 0 54.00 209:30 45.25 175: 0 50.00 192:30 53.75 210: 0 45.00 175:30 51.00 193: 0 *53.50 210:30 44.75 176: 0 52.00 193:30 53.25 211: 0 44.50 176:30 53.00 194: 0 53.00 211:30 44.25 177: 0 54.00 194:30 52.75 212: 0 44.00 177:30 55.00 195: 0 52.50 212:30 43.75 178: 0 ' 56.00 195:30 52.25 213: 0 43.50 178:30 57,00 196: 0 52.00 213:30 43.25 179: 0 58.00 196:30 51.75 214: 0 43.00 179:30 59.00 197: 0 51.50 214:30 42.75 180: 0 60.00 197:30 51.25 215: 0 42.50 180:30 59.75 198: 0 51.00 215:30 42.25 181: 0 59.50 198:30 50.75 216: 0 42.00 181:30 59.25 199: 0 50.50 216:30 41.75 182: 0 59.00 199:30 50.25 217: 0 41.50 182:30 58.75 200: 0 50.00 217:30 41.25 183: 0 58.50 200:30 49.75 218: 0 41.00 183:30 58.25 201: 0 49.50 218:30 40.75 184: 0 58.00 201:30 49.25 219: 0 40.50 184:30 57.75 202: 0 49.00 219:30 40.25 185: 0 57.50 202:30 48.75 220: 0 40.00 185:30 57.25 203: 0 48.50 220:30 39.75 186: 0 57.00 203:30 48.25 221: 0 39.50 186:30 56.75 204: 0 48.00 221:30 39.25 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra i6i DqpMn Vlrupa Deg:Mn Virnpa Deg:Mn Virop* J 222 : 0 39.00 222:30 38.75 223 : 0 38.50 223 30 38.25 224 : 0 38.00 224:30 37.75 225 : 0 37.50 225:30 37.25 226 : 0 37.00 226:30 36.75 227 : 0 36.50 227.30 36.25 228 : 0 36.00 228:30 35.75 229 : 0 35.50 229:30 35.25 230 : 0 35.00 230:30 34.75 231 : 0 34.50 231:30 34.25 232 : 0 34.00 232:30 33:75 233 : 0 33.50 233:30 33.25 234 : 0 33.00 234:30 32.75 235 : 0 32.50 235:30 32.25 236 : 0 32.00 236:30 31.75 237 : 0 31.50 237:30 31.25 238 : 0 31.00 238:30 30.75 239 : 0 30.50 239:30 30.25 240 : 0 30.00 - 240:30 29.75 241 : 0 29.50 241:30 29.25 242 : 0 29.00 242:30 28.75 243 : 0 28.50 243:30 28.25 244 : 0 28.00 244:30 27.75 245 : 0 27.50 245:30 27.25 246 : 0 27.00 246:30 26.75 247 : 0 26.50 247:30 26.25 248 : 0 26.00 248:30 25.75 249 : 0 25.50 249:30 25.25 250 : 0 25.00 250:30 24.75 251 : 0 24.50 251:30 24.25 252 : 0 24.00 252:30 23.75 253 : 0 23.50 253:30 23.25 254 : 0 23.00 254:30 22.75 255 : 0 22.50 255:30 27.25 256 : 0 22.00 256:30 21.75 257 : 0 21.50 257:30 21.25 258 : 0 21.00 258:30 20.75 259 : 0 20.50 259:30 20.25 260 : 0 20.00 260:30 19.75 261 : 0 19.50 261:30 19.25 262 : 0 19.00 262:30 18.75 263 : 0 18.50 263:30 18.25 264 : 0 18.00 264:30 1 7.75 265 : 0 17.50 265:30 17.25 266 : 0 17.00 266:30 16.75 267 : 0 16.50 267:30 16.25 268 : 0 16.00 268:30 15.75 269 : 0 15.50 269:30 15.25 270 : 0 15.00 270:30 14.75 271 : 0 14.50 271:30 14.25 272 ; 0 14.00 272:30 13.75 273 : 0 13.50 273:30 13.25 274 ; 0 13.00 Chapter 27 263 Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mo Virupa Deg:Mn Virupa 274:30 12.75 283: 0 275: 0 12.50 283:30 275:30 12.25 284: 0 276: 0 12.00 284:30 277:30 11.75 285: 0 276: 0 11.50 285:30 277:30 11.25 286: 0 278; 0 11.00 286:30 278:30 10.75 287: 0 279: 0 10.50 287:30 279:30 10.25 288: 0 280: 0 10.00 288:30 280:30 9.75 289: 0 281: 0 9.50 289:30 281:30 9.25 290: 0 282: 0 9.00 290:30 282:30 8.75 291; 0 8.50 291:30 4.25 8.25 292: 0 4.00 8.00 292:30 3.75 7.75 293: 0 3.50 7.50 293:30 3.25 7.25 294: 0 3.00 7.00 294:30 2.75 6.75 295: 0 2.50 6.50 295:30 2.25 6.25 296: 0 2.00 6.00 296:30 1.75 5.75 297: 0 1.50 5.50 297:30 1.25 5.25 298: 0 1.00 5.00 298:30 .75 4.75 299: 0 ,50 4.50 299:30 .25 an* sqcsfsnsnuT m^vjh Chapter 27 Evaluation Of Strengths sfNft *ntrffav f^yfta^cT u?n fafaifai mayumti 1-1J. STHAANA BALA (upto sloka 6) FIRSTLY UCHCHA BALA Now about the strengths by classes positional, temporal etc. (Firstly, Ucbchabala forming part of positional 26-4 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd strength or Sthaana bala), Deduct from the longitude of the planet its (deep) debilitation point. If the sum is less than 6 signs, consider it as it is^ if it exceeds 6 signs, deduct the same from 12 signs. The sum si&gt; got be converted into degress etc. and divided by 3 which is the planet’s Uchchabala or exaltation strength (in Virupas). Notes : These strengths are called Shadbala. These consist of the following ; 1. Sthaana Bala (or positional strength) 2. Dig Bala (or directional strength) 3. Kala Bala (Temporal Strength) inclusive of Ayana Bala (or equinoctial strength) 4. Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) 5. Naisargika Bala (or natural strength) 6. Drik Bala (or aspectual strength) These strengths are computed for the seven planets from the Sun to Saturn. The nodes are not considered. Firstly explained is Sthaana Bala due to a planet’s position. This strength comprises of the following considerations : 1. Uchcha Bala (or exaltation strength) 2. Saptavargaja Bala (or strength accruing out of positions in Rasi, Hora, Decahate, Saptamamsa, Navamsa, Dvadasamsa and Trimsamsa). 3. Ojhayugmarasiamsa Bala (strength acquired by place- ment in odd/even Rasi and in odd/cven Navamsa), 4. Kendradi Bala (due to placement in angle, or succedent or cadent house). 5. Drekkana Bala (due to .placement in first, second or third decanate of a sign). In the present verses under comment the sage explains the method to know the Uchchabala of a planet. To find out this strength, we need two things. Firstly the planet's actual longitude. Secondly its debilitation point which is constant for all horoscopes. The deep debilitation points of the 7 planets are noted on pp 38-39 supra. For example, assume the Sun’s placement in a given case is Pisces 12° 15’ (or 342° 15'). His deep debilitation point is Libra 10° (or 190°), Hence : 265 Chapter 27 (Sun’s position' — Deep debilitation point) H- 3 = 342° 15* minus 190 ° . - - — 152° 1 5' ~ 3 = 50.75 Virupas If the sum before division by 3 is in excess of 180 degrees deduct it from 360 and then divide by 3 which will be the planet’s uchcha bala in Virupas. Maximum Uchcha bala is always 60 shashtiamsas or 1 Rupa. [PtM ll^ll «jht: ii^ii fiwtoai 2-4. SA PTA VARGAJA BALA ; If a planet is in its Moolatrikona Rasi, it gets 45 Virupas, in own Rasi 30 Virupas, extreme friend’s Rasi 20 Virupas, friend’s Rasi 15 Virupas, neutral’s Rasi 10 Virupas, enemy’s Rasi 4 Virupas and in extreme enemy’s Rasi 2 Virupas. Similarly these values occur for the other 6 divisional occupations, viz. Hora, Decanate, Saptamamsa. Navamsa, Dvadasamsa and Trimsamsa. When all th-^ are added together the planet’s Saptavargaja Bala emerges. Notes : Next step is to find out the Saptavargaja bala of a planet. The tables of various Vargas as well as the compound relationships of the planets, are given in the previous pages. The compound relationships of two given planets, vide P. 42 supra (including Hora lordship etc.) be seen in the Rasi chart only and not in the concerned divisional chart. Then the strengths in Virupas for each of the Sapta vargas be found out and added, which is then called saptavargaja bala of the planet. 4J. OJHAYUGMARAS1AMSA BALA : Each of Venus and the Moon in even Rasis and others in odd Rasis acquire a quarter of Rupa (i.e. 15 Virupas). These are applicable to such Navamsas also. 266 Brihat P&amp;raSara Horn Sastrd Notes r Each of Jupiter, the Sun, Mars, Mercury and Saturn get 35 Virupas if they are placed in odd Rasis. Venus and the Moon get similar strength for placement in an even sign. Similarly for placement in such odd or even Navamsas. The strengths acquired by Rasi and Navamsa positions be added together to know the Ojhayugmarasiamsa bala. (Male and neutral planets get this strength in male Rasi/Navamsa. Female planets get such strength in female Rasi/Navamsa.) fr?TTf*ijf?*RTT: n X.U 5. KENDRADI BALK : A planet in an angle gets full strength while one in succedent house gets half and the one in cadent house gets a quarter (of Rupa) (as Kendradi bala). Notes : Kendradi means angles etc. This denotes three groups of four Rasis each. These are angles, (i.e. 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) succedents, (i.e. 2nd, 5th, 8th and llth)and cadeDts, (i e. 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12(h). The following are the Kendradi balas : 1 (1) Planet in angle— 60 Virupas (2) Planet in succedent=30 Virupas (3) Planet in cadent=15 Virupas fPTeTT: ^Trf I 6. DREKKANA BALA : ^fale, female and ijctinaphro- dite planets respectively get a quarter Rupa according to placements in the first, second and third decapates. Notes : This strength is acquired by a planet with Referen- ce to its decauate position being in the lst v 2pd, or 3rd part of a sign. Male planets are : the Sun, Mars, and Jupiter. Female planets are Venus and the Moon. Saturn ^nd Mercury are eunuch bodies. A Drekkona bala of 15 Virupas will be acquired by planets as under : Male planet in 1st Drekkana. Female planet in 2nd Drekkana, Eunuch planet in 3rd Drekkana. For calculations of Drekkana, see Speculum of Drekkanas, supra. Needless to mention that if the Drekkana position is Chapter 27 267 other than what is required, then the strength on this count is nil. This strength is also called Linga Bala. The Balas so far acquired, viz. (I) Uchcha bala, (2) Saptava- rgaja bala, (3) Ojhayugmarasiamsa bala, (4) Kendradi bala and (5) Drekkana bala be all added together to get net Sthaana bala or positional strength. These are in Virupas and hence be divided by 60 to know the strength in Rupas. 3T¥T»T ^ f?r*T flfaUvall * ^ N A 7-7$. DIG BALA OR DIRECTIONAL STRENGTH : Deduct the 4th house (i.e. Nadir) from the longitudes of Sun and Mars; the 7th house (i.e. descendant) from that of Jupiter and Mercury; the 10th house (i.e. meridian) from that of Venus and the Moon; and lastly the ascendant from that of Saturn. If the sum is above 180 degrees deduct the sum from 360. The sum arrived in either way be divided by 3 which will be the Digbala (or directional strength ) of the planet. Notes : As seen earlier, Jupiter and Mercury have Digbala in the ascendant. Venus and the Moon have this bala in the 4th house (i.e. Nadir), Saturn in the descendant and the Sun and Mars on the meridian. These strengths are full on the cusp of the respective house and nil on the cusp of the opposite house. Hence note down the longitude of the concerned planet and the cuspal degree on which it is bereft of directional strength. Deduct the latter from the former. If the product exceeds 180’ deduct the same again from 360. The sum so arrived at be divided by 3, which will denote the Digbala of the planet in Virupas. The directional strength acquired by a planet when it is on fts most powerful point is I Rupa or 60 Virupas. For example Saturn exactly on the 7th cusp gets 1 Rupa, and exactly on the ascending degree gets zero Virupa as directional strength. fflHHhslJn dflR ||c;M ataw fallen 268 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd 8-9. KAALA BALA OR TEMPORAL STRENGTH (upto sloka 17) : Firstly NATHONNATHA BALA. Find out the difference between midnight and apparent birth time which is called Unnata. Deduct Unnata from 30 ghatis to obtain Nata (-FT). Double the Nata in ghatis which will indicate identical Natha bala for the Moon, Mars and Saturn. Deduct the Natha from 60 to know the Unnatha bala of the Sun, Jupiter and Venus. Mercury, irrespective of day and night, gets full Nathonnatha Bala (i.e, of 1 Rupa or 60 Virupas). Notes : Kaala Bala (or temporal strength) comprises of the following sub divisions : . 1) Nathonnatha Bala (diurnal and nocturnal strengths), 2) Paksha Bata (Paksha=fortnight). 3) Tribhaga Bala (strength due to day/night being made in 3 parts). 4) Varsha-Masa-Dioa-Hora Bala (Varsha— astrological year, Masa=month, Dina=week day and Hora— planetary hour). 5) Ayana Bala (equinoctial strength). 6) Yudhdha Bala (strength due to partaking in planetary war). Though Naisargika bala discussed in between in sloka 14, this is an independent source of strength without reference to Kala bala. Firstly Nathonnatabala, Moon, Mars and Saturn get this strength in the night. The Sun, Jupiter and Venus get diurnal strength or strength in day time. The same Virupas of strength will be identically held by all the planets of each group. That is whatever will be the Sun’s Nathonnata strength will be identically held by Jupiter and Venus. Similarly the other group. Formula : Natha ghatis (apparent) x 2=Natha bala for Moon group. 60— Moon’s Natha Bala— Bala for Sun group Mercury always gets 1 Rupa as Nathonnatha bala irrespe- ctive of the birth being in day or night time. Another simple method is as under : Natha Bala = Brith time in degrees 3 '• — 180 Minus birth time in degrees 3 ' Unnatha Bala Chapter 27 269 For this purpose count from apparent midnight to birth time at the rate of one degree per minute of time, or 15° per hour. This will convert the birth time into degrees etc. «w tow fareihw *1 faWt wrote; u ? on «n f TRt «TWHWT U??ll 10-11. PAKSHA BALA : Deduct from the Moon’s longi- tude that of the Sun. If the sum exceeds 6 signs, deduct the same from 12. The product so obtained be converted into degrees etc and divided by 3 which will indicate the Paksha bala of each of the benefic planets. The Paksha bala of benefic should be deducted from 60 which will go to each malefic as paksha bala. Notes : Paksha bala is decided on the following basis : Paksha bala for benefic — Moon minus Sun 3 Paksha bala for malefic =60 minus benefic’s Paksha bala, ‘Benefics form one group and each of them will get the same figure of Paksha bala. (Mercury is to be treated as a malefic if he is conjunct a malefic. The Moon in dark half is a malefic.) The bala of benefics should be deducted from 60 to get a malefic’s Paksha bala. If Moon— Sun is above 180, deduct it from 360. Whether the Moon is in a group of benefics or otherwise, her Paksha bala is always doubled just as the Sun’s Ayana bala. •o ^ 12. TRIBHAGA BALA : One Rupa is obtained by Mercury (if birth is) in the first one third part of day time, by the Sun in the second one third part of the day and by Saturn in the last third part of the day. Similarly, the Moon, Venus and Mars get full strength (of one Rupa) in the first, second and last one third parts of the night. Jupiter gets this strength at all times. 270 Brlhat Parasara flora Sastra Notes : This strength goes to one planet only, as I rupa. Jupiter, however, gets 1 Rupa irrespective of birth time. The day duration or night duration according to birth being in day or night must be divided by 3. With the foIlQwing table, Tribhaga bala can be known, according to the birth being : in 1st part of day— 1 Rupa to Mercury in 2nd part of day=l Rupa to the Sun in 3rd part of day=l Rupa to Saturn in 1st part of night=l Rupa to the Moon in 2nd part of nighj— 1 Rupa to Venus in 3rd part of night= 1 Rupa to Mars atanytime=l Rupa to Jupiter Thus two planets will get 1 Rupa of Tribhaga bala. That is 1 Rupa to Jupiter and 1 Rupa to the respective planet in whose part the birth occurs. The other 5 planets do not get any Tribhaga bala. flfow g*T lit 311 13. V A R SHA-MA A 5.4 -DIN A- HO R A BALA : 15,-30, 45 and 60 Virupas are in order given to Varsha lord, Maasa lord Dina lord and Hora lord. Naisargika bala (or natural, strength) has already been explained. Notes : Under this heading, four different planets get certain Virupas. These strengths are : Varsha (Abda) lord = 15 Virupas Masa (month), lord 30 Virupas Dina (day) lord = 45 Virupas Hora (hour) lord = 60 Virupas How to decide the said lordships is explained as under. Varsha lord : Astrological year is different from other measures. The day on which the astrological year begins can be found out from the Speculum of abbreviated Aharganas, vide p.272. To know the Varsha lord we should first ascertain the number of days past from the beginning of Creation. This is a very tedious process and hence we are concerned with the abbreviated Ahargana (or the number of days past from Chapter 27 271 Creation). According to late Rev. Ebenezer Burgess, who translated Surya Siddhanta in English, as on January 1, I860, the number of days past from the beginning of Creation are 714, 404, 108, 57 3. To know the day on which the astrological year in which birth took place began adopt the following formula. Divide the number of days past from the day of Creation till the day of birth by 160. Reject remainder and multiply the quotient by 3. Increase the post-multiplied product by I and divide by 7. The remainder will indicate the week day on which the astrolo- gical year giving birth to the native opened. Remainder 1 indicates Sunday, 2 Monday and so on and so forth. Assume that birth took place on June I, 1984. Locate from the Speculum of Abbreviated Aharganas for January O date 1984 as 65142. Add 153 being the number of days upto the day of birth (inclusive the birth date). Thus we get abbre- viated days past from creation to birth as 65295. This product when divided by 360 yields a quotient of 181. Remainder is to be rejected. 181 multiplied by 3 indicates 543. Increased by 1, this gives 544. When 544 is divided by 7, the remainder is 5. That is, the astrological year of birth for one born on June 1, 1984 began on a Thursday. Hence this strength or Varsha bala goes to Jupiter, the ruler of Thursday. Masa Lord : Divide the same Ahargana by 30 and the quotient (devoid of remainder) indicates months passed from Creation to birth. The completed months be multiplied by 2 and increased by 1. The latest sum should be divided by 7 and the remainder indicates on which the birth month began. Continuing with the same case, we divide 65295 by 30. Quotient is 2176. This sum multiplied by 2 and increased by 1 denotes 4353. Dividing 4353 by 7, we get a remainder of 6 denoting Friday. That is, the month of birth began on Friday and the Masa bala goes to Venus, the lord of Friday. Dina lord : Though the week day of birth can be known from ephemeris or perpetual calendars, we better adopt the method prescribed which will confirm if the Ahargana followed is correct or is otherwise. The number of t*'ys as arrived above indicating Ahargana be divided by 7 and the remainder will indicate the week day of birth. In the example case 65295 272 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra divided by 7 leaves a remainder of 6. That is June 1,1984 is Friday. Hence the Ahargana followed by us is correct. While considering Dina bala, the birth should be treated from sunrise to sunrise. Hence in this case, the Dina bala goes to Venus, ruler of Friday. Hora$aIa : Hora means planetary hour. Each day from sunrise to sunrise is divided into 24 equal parts of one hour or 2.5 ghatikas. These Horas are ruled by the 7 planets from the Sun to Saturn. The first Hora of the day is ruled by the lord of the week day. The 2nd one is ruled by the lord of the 6th week day counted from the first ruler. The 3rd Hora is ruled by the lord of the 6th week day counted from the 2nd Hora lord. Similarly it proceeds in the same manner till the first Hora of the next day is taken over by the lord of that day himself. Whichever planet rules the birth Hora gets the Hora Bala. Horas are to be calculated for mean local time and nqt standard time of birth. For easy reference, consult the Speculum of Horas Vide infra. Speculum of Abbreviated Ahargana for January 0 Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana 1800 1801 1802 1803 1 8p4* 1805 1806 1807. 1808* 1809 1810 1811 1812* 458 823 1188 1553 1918 2284 2649 494 859 1225 1590 1955 2320 1813 1814 1815 1816* 1817 1818 1819 1820* 1821 1822 1823 1824# 1825 2686 . 3051 3416 3781 4147 4512 • 4877 5242 5608 5963 6338 6703 7069 1826 1827 1 828* 1829 183a 1831 1832# 1833. 1834 1835 1836# 1J37 1838 7434 7799 8164 8530 8895 9260 9625 9991 10356 10721 11086 11452 11817 Chapter 27 273 Yr. Aiiargana Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana 1839 12182 1875 25334 1911 38479 1S40* 12547 1876# 25696 1912* 38844 1841 12913 1877 26062 1913 39210 1842 13278 1878 26427 1914 39575 1843 13643 1879 26792 . 1915 39940 1844# 14008 oo oc O * 27157 1916* 40305 1845 14374 1881 27523 1917 40671 1846 14739 1882 27888 1918 41036 1847 15104 1883 28253 1919 41401 1848* 15469 1 884* 28618 1920# 41766 1849 15835 1885 28984 1921 42132 1850 16200 1886 29349 1922 42497 1851 16565 1887 29714 1923 42862 1852* 16930 1 888* 30079 1924* 43227 . 1853 17296 1889 30445 1925 43593 1854 17661 1890 30810 1926 43958 1855 18026 1891 31175 1927 44323 1856* 18391 1892* 31540 1928# 44688 1857 18757 1893 31906 1929 45054 1858 19122 1894 32271 1930 45419 1859 19487 1895 32636 1931 45784 I860* 19852 1 896* 33001 1932* 46149 1861 20218 1897 33367 1933 46515 1862 20583 .1898 33732 1934 46880 1863 20948 1899 34097 1935 47245 1864* 21313 1900 34462 1936* 47610 1865 21679 1901 34827 1937 47976 1866 22044 1902 35192 1938 48341 1867 22409 1903 35557 1939 48706 1868* 22774 1904# 35922 1940* 49071 1869 23140 1905 36288 1941 49437 1870 23505 1906 36653 1942 49802 1871 23870 1907 37018 1943 50167 1872* 24235 1908# 37383 1944# 50532 1873 24601 1909 37749 1945 50898 1874 24966 1910 38114 1946 51263 274 Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana 1947 51628 1965 58203 1983 64777 1948* 51993 1966 58568 1984* 65142 1949 52359 1967 58933 1985 65508 1950 52724 1968* 59298 1986 65873 1951 53089 1969 59664 1987 66238 1952* 53454 1970 60029 1988# 66603 1953 53820 1971 60394 1989 66969 1954 54185 1972* 60759 1990 67334 1955 54550 1973 61125 1991 67699 1956* 54915 1974 61490 1992* 68064 1957 5528 1 1975 61855 1993 68430 1958 55646 1976* 62220 1994 68795 1959 56011 1977 62586 1995 69160 • 1960* 56376 1978 62951 1996* 69525 1961 56742 1979 63316 1997 69891 1962 57107 1980# 63681 1998 70256 1963 57472 1981 64047 1999 70621 1964* 57837 1982 64412 • Leap years. Common Years — Days for Zero Dates of Months Date Days Date Days Date Days Jan- 0 0 May 0 120 243 Feb. 0 31 June 0 151 273 Mar. 0 59 July 0 181 April 0 90 Aug. 0 212 334 Leap Years- —Days for Zero Dates of Months Date Days Date Days Date Days Jan. 0 0 May 0 121 Sept 0 244 Feb- 0 31 June 0 152 Oct. 0 274 Mar. 0 60 July 0 182 Nov. 0 305 April 0 91 Aug. 0 213 Dec. 0 335 Chapter 27 275 Speculum of Horas Hora Sun Mon Tut Wed Thu Fri Sat 1. Sun Moon Mar Merc Jup Ven Sat 2. . Ven Sat Sun Moon Mar Merc Jup 3. Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mar 4. Moon Mar Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun 5. Sat Sun Moon Mar Merc Jup Ven 6. Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc 7. Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 8. Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat 9. Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup 10. Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 11. Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun . 12. Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven 13. Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Mere 14. Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 15. Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat 16. Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup 17. Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 18. Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun 19. Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven 20. Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc 21. Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon 22. Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup Ven Sat 23. Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars Merc Jup 24. Merc Jup Ven Sat Sun Moon Mars 276 Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra eRTT* l wHV fra! ii^ii 14, NAISARGIKA BALA (NATURAL STRENGTH) : Divide one Rupa (or 60 Virupas) by 7 and multiply the resultant product by 1 to 7 separately which will indicate the Natural Strength due to Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, the Moon and the Sun, respectively. Notes : As per the above rule, the Naisargika Bala in Rupas are indicated below so that the reader need not calculate himself. Sun — 1. 000 Rupa Moon— 0.857 Rupa Mars — 0.286 Rupa Merc = 0.429 Rupa Jup =: 0.571 Rupa Ven = 0.714 Rupa Sat = 0.143 Rupa This strength is acquired by a planet due to its luminosity. The brightest gets the highest Naisargika Bala while the least bright gets the least Naisargika Bala. The Sun is the brightest among the 7 planets while Saturn is the darkest. The brightness of the planets can be guessed from the above figures. This is an independent strength and has nothing to do with Kala Bala, and is constant for all nativities and for ever. Hence no individual calculations need be done. Naisargika Bala has a significant use in the Shadbala, If two planets are of equal Shadbala, then the one with higher Naisargika Bala prevails over the other. mmHC KT: tsrowfalT: I « i UH»j^ i rvi qgira^f&lt;reT m \\ un fJHIledliytldT $PTT: I str tott i fafawr Chapter 27 277 15-17 AY AN A BALA : 45, 33 and 12 are the Khandas for calculating Ayana Bala. Add Ayanamsa to the planet (for which Ayana Bala is required) and find out the Bhuja (distance from the nearest equinox). Add the figure corresponding to the Rasi (of the Bhuja) to the Bhuja. The degrees etc. of the Bhuja (devoid of Rasi) be multiplied by the figure corresponding to the higher of the left out Khandas and divided by 30. Add the resultant product to the sum obtained earlier. Convert this into Rasi etc. If the Moon and Saturn are in Libra or ahead add to this 3 Rasis, and if sn Aries to Virgo reduce from 3 Rasis. Similarly it is reverse for the Sun, Mars, Venus and Jupiter, (i.e. addition or deduction is converse). For Mercury 3 Rasis are always additive. The resultant sum in Rasi, degrees and minutes be divided by 3 to get the Ayana Bala in Rupas. Notes : Ayana Bala can be found out on the following simple formula. Ayana Bala — 23 27 + Kranti v 46° 54' =(23 0 27' plus or minus Kranti)x 1.2793 The following points have to be remembered in respect of of Krantis. When the Moon or Saturn have Southern Kranti or when the Sun, Mars, Jupiter or Venus have Northern Kranti, take plus. In a contrary situation in respect of these 6 planets, take minus. As far as Mercury is concerned, it is always plus whether he has Southern Kranti or Northern Kranti. Krantis (or declinations) can be ascertained from standard modern ephemeris. The Sun’s Ayana Bala is again multiplied by 2 whereas for others the product arrived in Virupas is considered as it is. The following speculum will help the reader to easily work out the Ayana Bala, when the Kranti of a planet is known. 278 ttrihat Parasara Hora Sastra Speculum of Ayana Bala Kranti + 23° 27' Ayana Bala Kranti ¥ 23° 27' 0 * ft * 0 0 0.0 2 35 0 5 0.1 2 39 0 9 0.2 2 44 0 14 03 2 49 0 19 0.4 2 54 0 23 0.5 2 58 0 28 0.6 3 3 0 33 0.7 3 8 0 38 0.8 3 12 0 42 0.9 3 17 0 47 1.0 3 22 0 52 1.1 4 26 0 56 1.2 3 31 1 1 1.3 3 36 • i 1.4 3 40 l 1C 1.5 3 45 1 15 1.6 3 50 1 20 1.7 3 55 1 24 1.8 3 59 1 29 1.9 4 4 1 34 2.C 4 9 1 38 2.1 4 13 143 2.2 4 18 1 48 2.3 4 23 1 53 2.4 4 27 1 57 2.5 4 32 2 2 2.6 4 37 2 7 2.7 4 41 2 11 2.8 4 46 2 16 2.9 4 51 2 21 3.0 4 55 2 25 3.1 5 0 2 30 3.2 5 5 Ayafta Kranti Ayana Bala + Bala 23° 27' 3.3 O * 5 10 6.6 3.4 5 14 6.7 3.5 5 19 6.8 3.6 5 24 6.9 3.7 5 28 7.0 3.8 5 33 7.1 3.9 5 38 7.2 4.0 5 42 7.3 4.1 5 47 7.4 4.2 5 52 7.5 4.3 5 56 7.6 4.4 6 l 7.7 4.5 6 6 7.8 4.6 6 11 7.9 4.7 6 15 8.0 4.8 6 20 8.1 4.9 6 25 8.2 5.0 6 29 8.3 5.1 6 34 8.4 5.2 6 39 8.5 5.3 6 43 8.6 5.4 6 48 8.7 5.5 6 53 8.8 5.6 6 57 8.9 5.7 7 2 9.0 5.8 7 7 9.1 5.9 7 11 9.2 6.0 7 16 9.3 6.1 7 21 9.4 6.2 7 26 9.5 6.3 7 30 9.6 6.4 7 35 9.7 6.5 7 40 9.8 Chapter 27 279 280 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Kraoti Ayana Kranti + Bala + 23 ° 27 23 ° 27 0 • 15 43 20.1 0 * 18 22 15 47 20.2 18 27 15 52 20.3 18 32 15 57 20.4 18 36 16 1 20 5 1841 16 6 20.6 18 46 16 11 20.7 18 50 16 16 20.8 18 55 16 20 20.9 19 0 16 25 21.0 19 4 16 30 21.1 19 9 16 34 21.2 19 14 16 39 21.3 19 18 16 44 21.4 19 23 16 48 21.5 19 28 16 53 21.6 19 33 16 58 21.7 19 37 17 2 21.8 19 42 17 7 21.9 19 47 17 12 22.0 19 51 17 16 22.1 19 56 17 21 22.2 20 1 17 26 22.3 20 5 17 31 22.4 20 10 17 35 22.5 20 15 17 40 22.6 20 19 17 45 22.7 20 24 17 49 22.8 20 29 17 54 22.9 20 33 17 59 23.0 20 38 18 3 23.1 20 43 18 8 23.2 20 48 18 13 23.3 20 52 18 17 23.4 20 57 Ayana Kranti Ayana Bala + Bala 23 ° 27 23.5 o &lt; 21 2 26.9 23.6 21 6 27.0 23.7 21 11 27.1 23.8 21 16 27 2 23.9 21 20 27-3 24.0 21 25 27.4 24.1 21 30 27.5 24.2 21 34 27.6 24-3 21 39 27.7 24.4 21 44 27.8 24.5 21 49 27 9 24.6 21 53 28.0 24.7 21 58 28.1 24.8 22 3 28.2 24.9 22 7 28.3 25.0 22 12 ■ 28.4 25.1 22 17 28.5 25.2 22 21 28.6 25.3 22 26 28.7 25.4 22 31 28.8 25.5 22 35 28.9 25.6 22 40 29.0 25.7 22 45 29.1 25.8 22 49 . 29.2 25.9 22 54 29.3 26.0 22 59 29.4 26.1 23 4 29.5 26.2 23 8 29,6 26.3 23 13 29.7 26.4 23 18 29.8 26.5 23 22 29.9 26.6 23 27 30.0 26.7 23 32 30.1 26,8 23 36 30.2 Chapter 27 281 Kranti + 23° 27' Ayana Bala Kranti + . 23° 27' Ayana Bala Kranti + . 23° 27' Ayana Bala 0 * 23 41 30 3 o t 26 21 33.7 o • 29 0 37.1 23 46 30.4 26 25 33.8 29 5 37.2 23 50 30,5 26 30 33.9 29 9 37.3 23 55 30.6 26 35 34.0 29 14 37.4 24 0 30.7 26 39 34.1 29 19 37.5 24 5 30.8 26 44 34.2 29 23 37.6 24 9 30.9 26 49 34.3 29 28 37.7 24 14 31.0 26 53 34.4 29 33 37.8 24 19 31.1 26 58 34.5 29 38 37.9 24 23 31.2 27 3 34.6 29 42 38.0 24 28 31.3 27 7 34.7 29 47 38.1 24 33 31.4 27 12 34.8 29 52 38.2 24 37 31.5 27 17 34.9 29 56 38.3 24 42 31.6 27 22 35.0 30 1 38.4 24 47 31.7 27 26 35.1 30 6 38.5 24 51 31.8 27 31 35.2 30 10 38.6 24 56 31.9 27 36 35.3 30 15 38.7 25 1 32 0 27 40 35.4 30 20 38.8 25 5 32.1 27 45 35.5 30 24 38.9 25 10 32.2 27 50 35.6 30 29 39.0 25 15 32.3 27 54 35.7 30 34 39.1 25 20 32.4 27 59 35.8 30 38 39.2 25 24 32.5 28 4 35.9 30 43 39.3 25 29 32 6 28 8 36.0 30 48 39.4 25 34 32.7 28 13 36.1 30 53 39.5 25 38 32.8 28 18 36.2 30 57 39.6 25 43 32.9 28 22 36.3 31 2 39.7 25 48 33.0 28 27 36.4 31 7 39.8 25 52 33.1 28 32 36.5 31 11 39.9 25 57 33.2 28 37 36.6 31 16 40.0 26 2 33.3 28 41 36.7 31 21 40.1 26 6 33.4 28 46 36.8 31 25 40.2 26 11 33-5 28 51 36.9 31 30 40.3 26 16 33.6 28 55 37.0 31 35 40.4 Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 282 Kranti Ayana Kranti A) ana Kranti Ayana + Bala + Bala + Bala 23° 27' 23 a 27' 23° 27' o # e» * 31 39 40.5 31 44 40.6 31 49 40.7 31 54 40.8 31 58 40.9 32 3 410 32 8 41,1 32 12 41.2 32 17 41.3 32 22 41.4 32 26 41.5 32 31 41.6 32 36 41.7 32 40 41 8 32 45 41.9 32 50 42.0 32 54 42.1 32 59 42,2 33 4 42,3 33 9 42.4 33 13 42.5 33 18 42.6 33 23 42.7 33 27 42.8 33 32 42.9 33 37 43.0 33 41 43.1 33 46 43.2 33 51 43.3 33 55 43.4 34 0 43.5 34 5 43.6 34 10 43.7 34 14 43.8 34 19 43.9 34 24 44.0 34 28 44.1 34 33 44.2 34 38 44.3 34 42 14.4 34 47 44.5 34 52 44.6 34 56 44.7 35 1 44.8 35 6 44.9 35 11 45.0 35 15 45.1 35 20 45.2 35 25 45.3 35 29 45.4 35 34 45.5 35 39 45.6 35 43 45.7 35 48 45.8 35 53 45.9 35 57 46.0 36 2 46.1 36 7 46.2 36 11 46.3 36 16 46.4 36 21 46.5 36 26 46.6 36 30 46.7 36 35 46.8 36 40 46.9 36 44 47.0 36 49 47.1 36 54 47.2 36 58 47.3 37 3 47.4 37 8 47.5 37 12 47.6 37 17 47.7 37 22 47.8 37 27 47.9 37 31 48.0 37 36 48.1 37 41 48.2 37 45 48.3 37 50 48.4 37 55 48.5 37 59 48.6 38 4 48.7 38 9 48.8 38 13 48.9 38 18 38 23 49,1 38 27 38 32 49.3 38 37 49.4 38 42 49.5 38 46 49.6 38 51 49.7 38 56 49.8 39 0 49.9 39 5 39 10 50.1 39 14 39 19 39 24 39 28 39 33 50.6 Chapter 27 283 Kranti + 23° 27' Ayana Bala Kranti + 23° 27' Q • 39 38 50.7 O * 42 8 39 43 50.8 42 13 39 47 50 9 42 17 39 52 51.0 42 22 39 57 51.1 42 27 40 1 51.2 42 31 40 6 51.3 42 36 40 11 51.4 42 41 40 15 51.5 42 45 40 20 51.6 42 50 40 25 51.7 42 55 40 29 51.8 43 0 40 34 51.9 43 4 40 39 52.0 43 9 40 43 52.1 43 14 40 48 52‘2 43 18 40 53 52.3 43 23 40 58 52.4 43 28 41 2 52.5 43 32 41 7 52.6 43 37 41 12 52.7 93 42 41 16 52.8 43 46 41 21 52.9 43 51 41 26 53.0 43 56 41 30 53.1 44 0 41 35 53.2 44 5 41 40 53.3 44 10 41 45 53.4 44 15 41 49 53.5 44 19 41 54 53.6 44 24 41 59 53.7 44 29 42 3 53.8 44 33 Ayana Kranti Ayana Bata +. Bala 23° 27' O * 53.9 44 38 57.1 54.0 44 43 57.2 54.1 44 47 57.3 54.2 44 52 57.4 54.3 44 57 57.5 54.4 45 1 57.6 54.5 45 6 57.7 54.6 45 11 57.8 54.7 45 16 57.9 54.8 45 20 . 58.0 54.9 45 25 58.1 55.0 45 30 58.2 55.1 45 34 58.3 55.2 45 39 58.4 55-3 45 44 58.5 55.4 45 48 58.6 55.5 45 53 58.7 55.6 45 58 58.8 55.7 46 2 58.9 55.8 46 7 59.0 55.9 46 12 59.1 56.0 46 16 59.2 56.1 46 21' 59.3 56.2 46 26 59.4 56.3 46 31 59.5 56.4 46 35 59.6 56.5 46 40 59.7 56.6 46 45 59.8 56.7 46 49 59.9 56.8 46 54 60.0 56.9 57.0 284 Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra fait: *TR&lt;J rTfars^R^' **J?Rll$e;li 18. MOTIONAL STRENGTH FOR SUN AND MOON : The Sun’s Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) will correspond to his Ayana Bala. The Moon's Paksha Bala will itself be her Cheshta Bala. Notes : For the Sun and the Moon, there is no separate method of Cheshta Bala computation. The Sun’s Ayana Bala will itself be his Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) while the Moon’s Paksha Bala is her Cheshta Bala. For the other 5 planets, the method is described in slokas 24-25 infra. •CT'Tf’PTKtfH ?fzn \ 19. DRIG BALA (ASPECTUAL STRENGTH) : Reduce one fourth of the Drishti Pinda if a planet has malefic aspects on it and add a fourth if it is aspected by a benefic. Super add the entire aspect of Mercury and Jupiter to get the net strength of a planet. 3T*T eTIT&amp;tTT'tTT § t 20. PLANETARY WAR : Should there be a war between the starry planets (i.e. between 2 planets from Mars to Saturn, in a given horoscope), the difference between the Shadbalas of the two should be added to the victor’s shadbala and deducted from the Shadbala of the vanquished. TTRI HBT I *TT StTSfr^TT %frT ^TOimcjQT *lfall^H ttfarfWiMew i qTd t 21-23 PLANETARY MOTIONS (MARS TO SATURN) ; Eight kinds of motions are attributed to planets. These are Vakra 285 Chapter 27 (retrogression), Anuvakra (entering the previous sign in retro- grade motion), Vikala (devoid of Motion or in stationary posit- ion), Manda (somewhat slower motion than usual), Mandatara (slower than the previous mentioned motion), Sama (somewhat increasing in motion as against Manda), Chara (faster than Sama) and Atichara (entering next sign in accelerated motion). The strengths allotted due to such 8 motions are : 60, 30, 15, 30, 15, 7.5, 45 and 30. qyinfsw SgcT IRYII ITFftfief faftfWT fofa \ 24-25 MOTIONAL STRENGTH FOR MARS ETC. : Add • together the mean and true longitudes of a planet and divide the ame by two. Reduces this sum from the Seeghrocha (or apogee) of the planet. The resultant product will indicate the Cheshta Kendra (or Seeghra kendra) of the planet from 12 signs. The Rasi, degrees and minutes so arrived be converted into degrees, minutes etc. and divided by 3 which will denote the motional strength of the planet. Thus there are six sources of strength called Sthaana Bala Digbala, Kaalabala, Drigbala, Cheshta Bala and Naisargika Bala. Notes : Take the average between a planet’s mean longi- tude and true longitude (i. e. Mars to Saturn). Deduct this product from its Seeghrocha which will be its Cheshta Kendra. If this exceeds 180 degrees deduct again from 360 degrees. Divide the Cheshta Kendra by 3 which will be the motional strength of the planet. sitanra sro i n ^ \ \\ e « ' SA ^ V 6 ' 286 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra tf^rcrjjcT Far^^fagrmffsrwiT i Sfa RT^vT TW HTRFtj r? g*)fRT»T u^tu 26-29 BHAVA BALAS ; Thus I explained about the planetary strengths. Deduct the 7th house (longitude of descen- dant) from the bhava if the bhava happens to be in Virgo, Gemini, Libra, Aquarius or the first half of Sagittarius, if Aries, Taurus, Leo or first half of Capricorn or the second half of Sagittarius happen to be the bhava, deduct the 4th house (Nadir) from it. Should the Bhava be in Cancer or in Scorpio deduct from it the ascendant. And deduct the 10th house (meridian) from the bhava happening to fall in Capricorn second half or Pisces. Convert the product so obtained (in the respective case) into degrees etc. and divide by 3 to get the strength of the bhava. If the balance in the process of deducting the Nadir, Meridian, ascendant or descendant exceeds 6 signs, deduct it again from 12 signs before converting into degrees and dividing by 3. The product after division should be increased by a fourth if the bhava in question has a benefic aspect on it. And a malefic’s aspect will entail one fourth reduction. If Jupiter or Mercury aspect a bhava, add that planet’s aspectual strength also. And then SLperadd the strength acquired by the lord of that Bhava. This will be the net strength of that Bhava. &lt;9 « OS gflJcTH H^oU 4 S tftqfoit ms: msmmgmites: i faf?T «TTSfa&lt;T 30-31 SPECIAL RULES . The bhavas occupied by Jupiter and Mercury will each get an addition of 1 rupa while each of the bhava occupied by Saturn, Mars and the Sun suffer 1 rupa reduction. 15 virupas will have to be added to the bhavas fall- ing in Seershodaya Rasis if birth happens to be in day time, to the bhavas falling in dual (or common) Rasis if birth happens to be in twilight and to the bhavas falling in Prishtodaya Rasis if birth be in night. TOUT T&gt;&lt; Pfl'iJcC | ffsrms: gnfWm s?wgfmTT: tort u 3^11 287 Chapter 27 ct?t gqfaq) *mr: » arfej^r ^JT^fZTR ^t=f qqqfaq&gt; feq ! n^n 32-33. SHADBALA REQUIREMENTS : 390, 3*0, 300, 42C, 390, 330 and 300 Virupas are the Shadbala Pindas needed for the Sun etc.