clue of the two hints given in the present verses about the evaluation of Raja yogas. There are certain Raja Yogas formed with reference to Karakamsa ascendant, Atma Karaka’s position in the Rasi chart, Amatya Karaka, Upapada, Arudha pada etc.— so to say in the Jaimini style — as can be seen in our present text. For example take the rule given in sloka 22 of the current chapter where it is stated that Atma Karaka in benefic’s Rasi or Navamsa will make one wealthy. In the chart given in ch. 29 (sloka 1-3), we have Atma Karaka Moon in Jupiter’s Navamsa So as per the rule the native should become rich. To strengthen this argument, we find Jupiter in exalta- tion. Putra Karaka (Chara scheme) for the said horoscope in the Sun. He aspects the ascendant. In the Navamsa chart, the Sun is placed in the 4th from Atma Karaka. All these indicate that the native should be wealthy. If Putra Karaka (Chara) and Karakamsa Lagna are not well related, the yogas related to that scheme will be futile. Chapter 39 389 Next take the natal ascendant lord and the 5th lord from the natal ascendant. In assessing the Raja yogas strength ralated to the natal ascendant, the strength 'and relationship between these two lords should be correctly understood. In the example chart cited above, the 5th lord is Jupiter who is exalted and is endowed with a Shadbala of 9.32 Rupas and Mars 7.32 Rupas. Their Vimsopaka strengths.are respectively 16.45 and 16.80 points making them extremely well disposed to cause vigour to any Raja yoga in the horoscope. Hence it is apparent that the sage correlates the Chara Putra Karaka with the Karakamsa ascendant (or Atmakaraka) and the 5th lord from natal ascendant with the lord of the natal ascendant itself. fast ! forTU^t **&gt;3% *** STSfa I srfiTSJTRT: l|v»|| 6-7 MAHA RAJA YOGA : Should the ascendant 1 ord and the 5 th lord exchange their signs or if Atma karaka and Putra Karaka (Chara) are in the ascendant, the 5th, exaltation sign, own sign or own Navamsa in aspect to a benefic, Maha Raja yoga is produced. The native so born will be famous and happy. Notes : An exchange between the ascendant lord and the 5th lord will bestow a supreme Raja yoga on the native. For example in the case of a Pisces-born, Jupiter in the 5th and the Moon in the ascendant. In the second stage, the A tma Karaka and Putra Karaka (Chara) are brought in the picture. They can be jointly in the 5th or in the ascendant (or in Karakamsa Lagna and the 5th from there) or separately in these places. Alternatively, both of them should be in their respective exaltation signs, or in own signs, or in own Navamsas and be related to a benefic by aspect. In this respect, the horoscope of Mrs Gandhi will serve us with a perfect example. Her chart can be found with reference to sloka 50 in ch. 24 supra. The Atma Karaka is Saturn (21° 50') while Putra Karaka is Mercury Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 390 (13° IT). It may be noted that Saturn is in the ascendant while Mercury is in the Sth lifting the native to Himalayan heights through the said Maha Raja yoga. Atma Karaka Saturn is in his own Navamsa and Merury is in the 10th from Karaka msa Lagnn. fTT^VT: VTTfft q? I qnwftn m i drfl imn 8. If the ascendant lord and Atmakaraka are in the ascendant, 5th or 7th in conjunction with or in aspect to a benefic, there obtains a Raja yoga. Notes : If the ascendant lord himself becomes theAtma- Karaka his mere placement in the ascendant itself or in the 5th/7th from the ascendant in association with a benefic will cause a similar Raja yoga. In the case of Mrs Gandhi, the Atma Karaka is in the ascendant while the ascendant lord Moon is in exchange with him in the 7th. The Moon is favourably aspected by yoga karaka Jupiter from the llth house speaking for the native’s high and successful political career. §q q qsqr* i snift TTsn tjrifo qc$q rTT^TT I srRTt mn *%tq fro qtci u$oii 9*10. Should there be benefics in the 2nd, 4th and 5th counted either from the ascendant lord or from Atmakaraka sign, one will become a king. Similarly malefics in the 3rd and 6th from the said places. wttfr qr q*qtf 1 *pqq^ qTsfq Tiqqqf nMrcuttu 11. One will be related to royal circles if Venus is in the kafakamsa, or in the 5th therefrom or in the ascendant or in Arudha ascendant in aspect to or in the company of Jupiter or the Moon. 391 Chapter 3 $. Notes : The planet Venus should be in one of the four places, viz. Karakamsa ascedant, Arudha ascendant, natal ascend- ant and in the 5th from Karakamsa ascendant. (Arudha ascend- ant is also known as Arudha Pada, vide ch. 29 supra.) Being placed so, Venus must be related to the Moon or Jupiter by aspect/association. Taking the example chart given in ch. 29, we find Venus is in the Karakamsa ascendant along with the Moon (the Atma Karaka). The native is thus related to people with high social status through his professional sphere. ‘bMefUltf fcjTfarT | TRW9 3R: 11^11 12. Even if a single planet aspects the natal ascendant or Hora Lagna or Ghatika Lagna, the native will become a king. Notes : Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna are narrated on page 63 supra. If a planet aspects one of the three ascendants, viz. natal ascendant, Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna, in becomes a Karaka planet .or significator giving status etc. to the native. ii^ii qrcscz qRt7&gt;tTft?rcT sN u « 13-14. If the six divisions (shadvargas) of the ascendant is occupied or aspected by one and the same planet, a Raja F yoga is doubtlessly formed. According to the aspect is full, half or one fourth, results will be in order full, medium and negligible. Notes : Rasi, Hora, Drekkana, Trimsamsa, Navamsa and Dvadasamsa constitute Shadvarga or six divisions. If a planet occupies the ascendant in all these 6 charts it causes a powerful Raja yaga. Aspects are referred to in the divisional charts here. I am unable to fully conceive the logic in aspects in divisional charts for the sage himself referred to longitudinal aspectual evaluations in an earlier chapter. Without commen- 392 Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra ting further on this controversial aspect I leave it at that, accepting my limitations to explain this fully. WZ TT3T OT«? 1 15. If the 3 ascendants (i.e. natal ascendant, Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna) are occupied by planets in exaltation/own sign or if the natal ascendant, Drekkana ascendant and Navamsa ascendant have exalted planets. Raja yoga is formed. *11? n tsrgtf ?rsn i TT3R?ta&gt; ?? 11^11 16. If the Moon and a benefic are in the Arudha Lagna, as Jupiter is in the 2nd from natal ascendant and both the places are aspected by planets in exaltation or in own sign, there will be a Raja yoga. ^ *?3 SfT'ft TT3?T 5?T cT&lt;:??q&gt;Sf&lt;T STT I I^U 17. If the ascendant, 2nd and 4th are occupied by benefics while a malefic is in the 3rd, one will become a king or equal to a king. *ar&gt;5T^&gt; in q* *t I *? am? mv: fan fenfa n?m&lt; 18. The native will be wealthy if one among the Moon, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is exalted in the 2nd house. in q^T: | ^ vjnrift TT WmW : 1 1 \ £| | 19. If the 6th, 8th and the 3rd are occupied by debili- tated planets as the ascendant lord is exalted or is in (his other) own house and aspects the ascendant, there is a Raja yoga. CfC3TSC£*T WmotolT ftgiTSScPTr: 1 TT^: H^oll 393 Chapter 39 20. Again a Raja yoga is formed if the 6th, 8th and 12th lords are in fall or in inimical signs or in combustion as the ascendant lord placed in his (other! own sign or in exaltation sign aspects the ascendant. SJHT: TT*?*T: ?TrS3 fl'nq: IR?U 21. If the 10th lord, placed in his own house or in exaltation, aspects the ascendant, a Raja yoga is formed. Similar is the case if benefics are in angles. &lt;TTST%*£&lt;T 5T* ijjf ^I5TT TOTlft'lt^U 22- If the Atmakaraka is in a benefic’s Rasi/Navamsa, the native will be wealthy. If there are ^enefics in angels from Karakamsa Lagna. he will become a king. 5171? fa«l: f^irf nf* I favTP* *T fccWr fraTTPSTT ST TVWT: M^|| 23. If the Arudha Lagna and Darapada are in mutual angles or in mutual 3rd/llthorin mutual trines, the native will doubtlessly become a king. Notes : Arudha Lagna is the Pada fer the natal ascen- dant while Dara Pada is the Pada for the 7th house. (Chapter 29 may be referred in the context of such calculations.) These two Padas should mutually be well placed, i.e. in mutual angles, mutual trines or mutually 3rd and 1 1 th so that the native will enjoy a royal status. Should there two Padas be in mutually 6th and 8th signs or 2nd and 12th signs, one will suffer from poverty not receiving the effects of the Raja yogas in the horoscope. The good relationship between Arudha Pada and Dara Pada is one of the essential pre-requisites for maturity of Raja Yogas. 24. If two or all of Bhava Lagna, Horn Lagna, Ghatika Lagna are in aspect to exalted planets, a Raja yoga is formed. 394 Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastni &lt;ixi 4 GVFJTtffsirrw ttxJtxtrsttPi I JTffT TrfVt^Wrwri ^RTS'EET 3 IRS^II 25. If the said 3 ascendants, their decanates and Navamas or the said ascendants and their Navamsas or the said ascen- dants and their decanates are aspected by a planet, a Raja yoga is formed. qt f^XT^rT: i w g^-xj^Ttnn n^n TtsraVft sr xixre: i xjm^ rT*niRV3ii 26-27. If Arudha Pada is occupied by an exalted planet particularly the Moon in exaltation or by Jupiter/Venus (with or without exaltation) while there is no Argala by a malefic, the native will become a king. If the Arudha Pada is a benefic sign containing the Moon while Jupiter is in the 2nd house, the same effect will prevail. aqxqfai eiqTsfa TPfftftq: smfefa xftr ! ircii 28. Even if one among the 6 th, 8 th and 12th lords being in debilitation aspects the ascendant there will be a Raja &gt;oga. •qg^qxnTTqfq-qfir?^ i 3 xr^ir xro n^n tt3tt *t cif&lt;rq&gt; qrfq srTriqft srrt^ »qx? i -a V qxqfa cnTTH^o'l gifhirrmq frnf qrofa ?rqT i *T«TTXT%^q XT IT fqV^I^q^R: U^H 29-31. The native will become a king if a planet ruling the 4th, 10th, 2nd or the 1 1th aspects the ascendant, while Venus aspects the 1 1th from Arudha Lagnaas Arudha Lagna is occupied by a benefic. The same effect will be obtained if a debilitated planet aspects the ascendant and is placed in the 6 th or the 8 th. Chapter 39 395 Again similar result will prevail if a debilitated planet placed in the 3rd/ 1 1th lends aspect to the ascendant. *TTSi^ifa toj t *5T«it ii^n 32. I now tell you of the Raja yogas based on the planets with different dignities and on the aspects and conjunctions of the planets. n^u If* eft *nfa fMKrenft 1 T H re gTfl ^ l 5Tvft ll^VU 33*34, The 9th lord is akin to a minister, and more especially the 5th lord. If these two planets mutually aspect, the native will obtain a kingdom. Even if these two are conjunct in any house or if be in mutually 7th places, one born of royal scion will become a king ^fSQ’ftfa'ITVqt 3 35. The native will attain kingdom if the 4th lord is in the 10th and the 10th lord is in the 4th and be in aspect to 5th and 9th lords. gcT^-ggeSTTdTOT sumgaT: I tm sjqtaft tfftcHf S*n&lt;ft 11^1' 36. If the lords of the 5th, 10th, 4th and the ascendant join in the 9th, one will become a ruler with fame spreading over the four directions gsnrsrffgqY srrfa riq?ft t enfirrfcr *t »roft 37. Should the lord of the 4th or of the 10th join either the 5th lord or the 9th Lord, the native will obtain kingdom. 396 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Notes : There are four Raja yogas mentioned in the above verse which can be understood as under : (1) 4th lord joining the 5th lord. (2) 4th lord joining the 9 th lord. - (3) 10th lord joining the 9th lord. (4) I Oth lord joining the 5 lord. It will be still superior if the 4th lord joins both the 5th lord and the 9th lord, or if the 10th lord joins the 5th and 9th lord. It may be noted that this is a yoga caused by an angular lord joinig a trinal lord. fNft sTTeft *nrt h^h 38. If the 5 th lord is in the ascendant, 4th or the I Oth in the company of the 9th lord or of the ascendant lord, the native will become a king. *r srrenNrfa? nun 39. Should Jupiter be in his own sign identical with the 9th house and be in the company of either Venus or of the 5th lord, the native will obtain kinghood. *prr fTf Tmr *r n^cii 40. Two and half ghatis (i.e. 60 minutes of time) from mid-day or from mid-night is auspicious time. A birth during such an auspicious time will cause one to be a king or equal to him. Notes : Though mid-day and mid-night are denoted in the translation for Dinardfaa and Nisardha a clarification is essential in regard to the implications of these. Mid-day simply denotes 12 Noon while mid -night zero hour as per common use. But what the sage implies is somewhat different. Dinardha means half of the day while Nisardha means half of the night, keeping in mind the Sun rise and Sun set at a given place. The verse has a yoga to indicate that if there is a birth Chapter 39 397 within an hour of the said Dinardha or Nisardha, the native will be a king. I shall illustrate this with a practical case. Take for instance a birth on 15th February 1947 at Jodhpur 73 E 2 and 26 N 18. The local sun rise is at 0638 hrs and sun set at 1749 hrs. Hence for this latitude and date, the day duration is llh 11m and night duration 12h 49m, Divide the day duration by two to get Dinardha which indicates 5h 35m. Similarly dividing night duration by 2 wc get Nisardha as 6h 24m. Add 5h 35m to Sun rise which will give half the day duration. Thus by adding 5h 35m to 6h 38m, we get 12h 13m. Similarly in the case of night, the night duration of 12h 49m be halved and the figure arrived at is to be added to sun set. Thus wcget Oh 13m (i.e. 13 m later than the usual mid-night). From the above we may understand that by simply taking 12 noon as mid-day and 0 hour as mid-night it will not serve our purpose in the context of the yoga suggested by the sage. Need- less to mention that LMT is to be used for these calculations. Uttar a Kalamrlta has two yogas in this respect, viz, Koteeswara yoga and Lakshadhikari yoga (vide ch 4, sloka 30). According to its author if there be a birth within 2 ghatikas (i.e. 48 minutes as against Parasara’s mention of 60 minutes) of Dinardha and Nisardha, a king is born who will conquer his enemies and observe religious rules of conduct and be learned. He further adds that if in the said case an exalted planet is ia the 2nd house, in aspect to another exalted planet, a Koteeswara is born. If the aspectig planet is in its own house (instead of being in exaltation) the native will then be only a Lakshadheewara. Suffice it to say that there will be relatively less riches in the second case. f*T*u Twfa TFsnrtir 41. Should the Moon and Venus be mutually in the 3rd and 11th and be in aspects, placed elsewhere, a Raja yoga is obtained. 1 Nofes : As P er the sloka in question, we find two condi- tions under which two Raja yogas form. In the first instance the Moon and Venus should be in mutually 3 and 11. 39&amp; Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra In the second instance, the Moon and Venus can be any- where but should mutually aspec*. This type of yoga is found in many standard texts. ?r tit 3n?r:ii Tnrr ew 42 Should the Moon, endowed with strength, be in Vargothamsa and be aspected by four or more planets, the native will become a king. u^Vsfa 3 im; stefa nv^u 43. One will become a king if the ascendant in Uttamamsa is aspected by four or more planets out of which the Moon should not be one. TT a ifv tft EW^rT: IIVVU 44. If one or two or three planets be in exaltation one of a royal scion will become a king while another will be equal to a king or be wealthy. ttsit *T*f?r fafroti: uvstu 45. If 4 or 5 planets occupy their exaltation signs or Moolatrikona signs, even a person of base-birth will become a king. ^ TFT-^&gt;TT 5RT f ^ xT H J UV^U 46. If 6 planets are exalted, the native will become an emperor and will enjoy various kinds of royal paraphernalia. ^ $tft *t wt mifind : &lt; fcji TTUT m ?Tf?nT&gt; IlVVdll 47. Even if one am one Jumter. Venus ana Mercury is in Chapter 40 399 exaltation while a benefic is in an angle the native will become a king or be equal to him. fctftqq: qtqra fjmm: I ifaqqtsfq 5TRT: &lt;T Tm qqfa SWJ UYttU 48. If all benefics are relegated to angles while malefics are in the 3rd, 6th and 1 1th, the native, . though may be of mean descent will ascend, the throne. ar«T nvon Chapter 40 Yogas For Royal Association awTfuqrrcSpinfq sraR?$ qqrq$fn$u 1. If the 10th lord from the ascendant is conjunct or aspected by the depositor of Amatyakaraka or even conjunct or aspected by Amatya karaka himself, the native will be a chief in the king’s court. Notes : Amatya karaka is the immediate successor of Atma karaka as we have seen earlier. The lord of the sign occupied by Amatya Karaka should aspect or join the 10th lord counted from the ascendant; the native will then enjoy a high governmental position. The Amatya karaka taking the role of his depositor in the above case will as well yield similar effects. The yogas given in the chapter should be related to one’s serving the government in various capacities depending on other combinations in his horosope. qni ’ i ?TC1 fa* ! SOFIcq U^ll 400 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 2. Jf the 10th and 11th are devoid of malefic occupation/ aspect while the 1 1th is aspccted by its own lord, the native will be a chief in the king’s court. Notes : This verse is open to another interpretation thus : the 1 Ith be devoid of malefic aspect/occupatio.n and be aspectcd by own lord while the 10th house should also be aspccted by its lord and the 10th is also disposed in the same manner. That is, the 10th house should also be aspected by its lord and should be free from malefic aspect/occupation. S3 ll^ll 3. Should Amatya karaka and the dispositor Atma karaka be together the native will be endowed with great intelligence and be a king’s minister. Notes : Karakendra is interpreted here as the dispositor of Atma karaka. Similarly Amatyesa means the dispositor of Amatya karaka. fa* ! l * -o 4. If Amatya karaka is strong and be with a benefic or if Amatya karaka is in own house or in exaltation, one will surely becomca king’s minister. TliRWft TOTOtra: I IK. II 5. There is no doubt in one’s becoming a king’s minister and famous if Amatya karaka is in the ascendant or the 5th or the 9th. 3TTF*rerrc^5rT: disnTcd'nK^' I 6. If Amatya karaka or Amatya karaka be in an angle or in a trine from the ascendant the native will beget royal mercy, royal patronage and happiness thereof. 401 Chapter 40 fesrsem ! i cjcffa spss^T rtr: rtRTufaT: Jisrra^ ii^u 7. Should malcfics be in the 3rd and 6th from Atma karaka or Arudha Lagna or the natal ascendant, one will become an army chief. _ fTR% ^3^' 3T | ’RTrtl^T ^ 7T3RT!ft Rtifa He; || 8. If Atma karaka is in an angle or-in a trine or in exaltation or in own house and be in aspect to the 9th lord, the native will be a king’s minister. RHT% SJrXRpyft^x SPRH TT'RfTR^ | rth%rts?i ntn 9. Should the Moon sign lord become Atma karaka and be in the natal ascendant along with a benefic, the native will become a king’s minister at his advanced age. RTSfa HR TT5nW5 RRtJ||?oU 10. Should the Atmakaraka be in the 5th, 7th, 10th or the 9th and be with a benefic, one will earn wealth through royal patronage. Rrnrwm^ vmr RRirsfa rt i TT31RTRftm&gt;T&gt;s?T fafasiiff fipfteTO ! ||g^|| 11. Tf the Arudha of the 9th house be itself the natal ascendant or if Atma karaka be in the 9th house the native will be associated with royal circles. mR'HTRSR i HTOtTRT 5JRT?TRTRH^U 12. One will gain through royal association if the 11th house is occupied by its own lord but be devoid of malefic aspect. The Atma karaka should at the Same time be conjunct a benefic. 402 Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastara snrcft &lt;M^4»a-^n&gt;sa qfrvtfwcf: u?3u 13. An exchange of signs between the 10th lord and the ascendant lord will make the native associated with the king in a great manner. frrcfrm ftrfcff frsrcmq l i TO TOf?l HMfclj UtYll 14. If Venus and the Moon are in the 4th from Karakamsa Lagna, the native will be endowed with royal insignia. qisfq qwNiq qfri qrW fart irfoR THffa* n\w 15. Should the ascendant lord or the Atma karaka be conjunct the 5th lord and be in an angle or in a trine, the native will be a king’s minister. 3jq f*OTOTq&gt;TTSsqTiT: »*?n Chapter 41 Combinations For Wealth 3iqT3?r: flSmqTfa CfflqW l Ufapf qft fqfmrft BTO *$&lt;T U ? II 1. I now tell you of special combinations giving wealth. One born in these yogas will surely become wealthy. IJiJsnS* tTftqq ^"1 I Frr3 tffcm *gff*TO ll^ll 2. YOGAS FOR GREAT AFFLUENCE (upto sloka 8) : Should a sign of Venus be the 5th house and be occupied by Venus himself while Mars is in the 11th house, the native will obtain great riches. 403 Chapter 41 Notes : This yoga applies to Capricorn and Gemini ascen- dants alone. For Capricorn ascendant, Venus will be in the 5th in own house while Mars jvill be in the 1 Ith in own house. Similarly for Gemini ascendant. So to say for these two ascend- ants, the 5th and 11th lords in own houses will confer abundant riches. grir tftfr shut: 113 n 3. Should a sign of Mercury be the 5th house and be occupied by Mercury himself as the llth house is occupied by the Moon, Mars and Jupiter, the native will be very affluent. Notes : This yoga applies to Aquarius ascendant and Taurus ascendant for which Mercury will be in the 5th in own house. It is quite superior for Taurus ascendant keeping Aquarius native in the next place. In both cases, Jupiter ruling the llth will be in own house along with his friends — the Moon and Mars. ^ rTfoig | ?TR Sjpparcq UVII 4. Should Leo be the 5th house and be occupied by the Sun himself as Saturn, the Moon and Jupiter are in the llth, the native will be very affluent. Notes : Here features Aries ascendant having the Sun in the 5th in Leo and Saturn, Jupiter and the Moon in the llth in Aquarius. Please note Saturn occupies the llth as its owner. g rrfag sift*?* sfa i sim sgsstrej qnw?: 11*11 5. Should the Sun and Moon be in the llth as Saturn is in the 5th identical with his own house, the native will be very affluent. Notes : Saturn will be in the 5th in Capricorn for a Virgo native, and in Aquarius for a Libra native. The Sun and the Moon are required to be in the llth. While being so, Cancer or Leo will be the 1 1th house as the case may be. 404 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 5 9^* 5^^ tffaf I ^'a^n *mt ^51®}?*? *TFW»: ll^U 6. Should Jupiter be in the Sth identical with his own house as Mercury is in the 1 1th, the native will be very affluent. Notes : Jupiter rules the Sth for Leo ascendant and for Scorpio ascendant while Mercury is the 1 1th lord for these two ascendants. Thus the $th and 11th lords will be in own signs. \ wmF? *193* 9 ■prow to*: u\sii 7. If a sign of Mars be the Sth with Mars therein as Venus is in the 1 1th, the native will become very affluent. Notes : Cancer and Sagittarius ascendant will attract this rule. Mars will be in own house in the Sth while Venus will be in the 1 1th in own house for these two ascendants. c hn^ 5 flfii i vrrtw: iinii 8. If Cancer be the Sth house containing the Moon therein at Saturn is in the 1 1th, the native will become very affluent. Notes : Here Pisces ascendant is considered with the Moon in the 5th and Saturn in the 11th. Thus from slokas 2 to 8, the formula that stands for basic consideration is that the 5th lord should be in the 5th while the 11th lord is in the 11th itself. Only in case of the rule given in sloka 3 for Taurus and Aquarius ascendants, two more planets have been added for the 1 1th house position. g;*: | 3*F»!T il&amp;ll 9. YOGAS FOR WEALTH (upto sloka 15) : Should the Sun be in Leo identical with the ascendant and be conjunct or aspected by Mars and Jupiter, one will be wealthy. Chapter 41 405 g^JTT q«T 1*2 3TTtft SPft lt?o(| 10. Should the Moon be in Cancer identical with ascen- dant and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury and Jupiter one will be wealthy. s &lt;• Tt rhiihii 1 1. Should Mars be in the ascendant identical with his own sign and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury, Venus and Saturn, the native will be rich. fl fatrfc p K T wTTcft IRcTU^H 12. Should Mercury’s sign ascend with Mercury therein and be conjunct or aspected by Saturn aud Jupiter the native will be rich. psfatR erf?** ?ri* I garffagrf to* tjqgrrH?:: u^n 13. Should Jupiter be in the ascendant identical with his own sign and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury and Mars, the native will be rich. crf?*g *f?i i *&gt; TO: * UfYII 14. If Venus be in the ascendant identical with his own sign and be conjunct or aspected by Saturn and Mercury, one will be wealthy. *rf*tft?m^ afro *rfro srfai &gt; Q rftfm ^ to* ri$Riiiui 15. If Saturn is in his own sign identical with ascendant be aspected by or conjunct Mars and Jupiter, the native will be wealthy. 4w Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra ara*aNi«ft &amp; arwrt sctt i nfs* spT*T ?ns?r ii{\n 16. OTHER QUALIFIED PLANETS : The 9th lprd and th 5th lord are capable of bestowing wealth. Similarly planets conjunct such a lord. There is no doubt that these planets will give wealth during their Dasa periods. Notes : The 5th lord and the 9th lord are primarily wealth-givers. If they are well placed in a horoscope, the native will become wealthy. If a favourable planet joins the 5th lord or the 9th lord, that planet will also become a significator of wealth. 17. The yogas mentioned above (upto sloka 16) should be delineated after knowing favourable unfavourable dispositions of the participant planets and their strength and weakness. STcTf 1 3tT*T fTtpft 5T3T *T&gt;37 flqTSSWt »5IfT&gt;P II ^ ** 5wi*t 18-19. EFFECTS OF ANGULAR LORD’S DIVISIONAL DIGNITIES : If the lord of an angle is in Parijatamsa, the native will be liberal, in Uttamamsa highly liberal, in Gopuramsa end- owed with prowess, in Simhasanamsa honourable, in Paaravata- msa valorous, in Devalokamsa head of an assembly, in Bra hm a, lokamsa a sage and in Iravatamsa delighted and be celebrated in all quarters. Notes : From verse 18 to verse 34 of this chapter, the sage instructs us on the dignities of the 4 angular lords and two trinal lords. The treatment is based on Dasa Varga divisions. For meanings of Parijata and other Amsas, sec ch. 6 supra. Shodasa Chapter 41 407 Varga sdheme also can be applied to the rules given herein with suitable modification proportionately. Lords of angles are those ruling the ascendant, the 4th, the 7th and the 10th. Their- divisional dignities are discussed in the present group of verses. One of the said rulers having various dignities will yield following effects. Farijatamsa Uttamamsa Gopuramsa Simhasanamsa Paravatmsa Devalokamsa Brahmalokamsa Jravatmsa liberal highly liberal endowed with prowess and manli- ness honourable (prominent etc.) valorous head of men, leadership, high posi- tion etc. sagely (spiritual achievements etc.) delighted, ever happy etc. and be a celebrated personality from all viewpoints. Here we must note the implied difference between the four lords ruling the various angles. The angular lords are powerful and more important in the ascending order. That is, the 4th lord is more powerful than the ascendant lord, the 7th lord is so against the 4th lord, and the 10th lord is the most powerful among the four lords. So the effects will also increase in the same order. •TTf^sn# foen sftvmT tfin 113 oil quiqd * Prom ! iiqtu 1 1 33 II 20-22. EFFECTS OF 5th LORD'S DIVISIONAL DIGNITIES : If the 5th lord is in Parijatamsa, the native will take to the branch of learning befitting his race, if in Uttamamsa he will have excellent learning, if in Gopuramsa he will rec- eive world-wide honours, in Simhasanamsa he will be endowed 408 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra with ministership, in also paaravatamsa endowed with knowledge of Supreme Spirit; in Devalokamsa he will be a Karma Yogi (i.e. a performer of actions, worldly and religious rites), in Brahmalokamsa devoted to the Lord and in Iravatamsa pious. Notes : While the four angular lords are treated in one and the same breath, the sage gives special importance to the 5th and 9th lords individually. The effects may suitably be under- stood based on the explanations given for angular lords above. *ftgT nwwif h 5P*Tf?n flfqqitf faf^ffjrq: lie's’ll qfoqsq qjqtmifaiT: t qerbp n tow: i wqRT? ?r?qTs*^uqr*nt^ii rT Gmforr COT? flfactrfai q«n sneft %3Ttri*r! ii^vsii 23-27. EFFECTS OF 9th LORD'S DIVISIONAL DIGNI- TIES : If the 9th lord is in Parijatamsa, the native will visit holy places, if in Uttamamsa he had done so in the past births as well, if in Gopuramsa he will perform sacrificial rites, in Simha- sanamsa he will be mighty, truthful, be a conquerer of his senses and will concentrate only on the Supreme Spirit giving up all religions, if in Paaravatamsa he will be the greates of ascetics, if in Devalokamsa he will be an ascetic holding a cudgel ( HTTrt ) or a religious mendicant that has renounced all mundane attachments and carrying three long staves tied together in his right hand and if in Brahmalokamsa he will perform Aswamedha yaga (Horse Sacrifice,) and will attain the state of Lord Indra (god of gods). If the 9th lord is in Iravatamsa the person bom will be a synonym of Dharma or virtues just as Lord Sri Rama and Yudhishtira (the eldest of Pandavas). Chapter 4l 4 O 9 Notes : The 5th lord has been used in spiritual and mate- rial planes as well. Whereas the 9th lord is solely related to one's spiritual achievements as could be seen by the treatment given by Maharshi Parasara in the above 5 slokas. The word Tridandi has been translated as above in the context of relating the native to a Sansyasi as these slokas exclusively concentrate on the spiritual achievements of the native, ‘Tridandi’ also means one who obtained command over mind, speech and deed- Without ‘Trikaranh Suddhi’ or purity of these three it will not be possible for one to achieve divine bliss. One who thinks bad in his mind though good in the other two spheres, viz. speech and actions cannot be called a pure character. Or one who thinks of good and speaks similarly but acts in a contrary manner cannot be a successful spiritualist. Lastly one who speaks undfesirablc words though good in think- ing and acting cannot also reach self realisation. Hence it is evident that one should be a ‘Tridandi’ or endowed with Trikarana Suddhi, so that he locates the Almighty at every point of space and time. We have so far seen that 5th and 9th lords are primarily wealth givers. The sage also denotes the 5th and 9tb lords as lords of‘Lakshmi sthanas*. Lakshmi though normally means wcalth.further conveys a meaning splendour (our lustre). This relates to divine splendour acquired by a person through his spiritual merits. If a person is splendorous, we see in him what is called Brahma Varchas or the splendour making him look like God, free from any material attachment. In this context we cannot but recall great personages like Rama Krishna ferama Hamsa, Maharshi Ramana, Sankaracharyas of various S rders and periods, Sivananda and so on ahd so forth. In all lese cases, the 5th and 9th lords and 5th and 9th houses enabled them earn that splendour. The wealth they earned is such that it cannot be exhausted even after many centuries, i e. divine status. 28. ANGULAR AND TRINAL LORDS RELATED : The angles are known as Vishnusthaana (i.e. houses of Lord Vishnu) while the trines are called Lakshmi sthaanas (i.e. houses of 410 Briha t Parasara Hora Sastra Lakshmi). If the lord of an angle establishes relationship with a trinal lord, a Rajayoga will obtain. Notes : The 4 houses, viz. the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th are known as Vishnusthaanas while the 5th and and 9th are Laksh- misthaanas. In Hindu mythology, Lakshmi is a consort of Lord Vishnu, the supreme god. A relationship thus between an angular lord and a trinal lord is capable of causing a superior Rajayoga, just as one having the blessings of Sri Vishnu and His consort Lakshmi will be endowed with permanent wellbeing. The kinds of relationship between planets that will be favourable are : 1. An exchange between these two lords. 2. Mutual aspects between these two lords. 3. Conjunction of these two lords. 4. Mutual angular placement existing between these two. 5. Mutual trinal placement between these two. The first three kinds of relationships are more powerful while the last two cannot be equally powerful but in a lesser degree. A sixth kind of relationship can also be extended in this context to Navamsa positions though 1 have no specific classic sanction for this. For example in a Capricornian’s case, Mars in the Navamsa of Venus and Venus in that of Mars will confer a superior Raja yoga. This form of relationship will be eqally superior like the first 3 relationships mentioned by me in the earlier paragraph. After seeing such a relationship between an angular lord and a trinal lord, their dignities like Parjjata etc. will have to be seen to decide the extent of effects due as could be seen in the following six verses. 411 Chapter 41 thtt gfafor: \ *rfgr?n ffacranr 1. 113311 •TTTT^rlf 1(1 41^4 'HlcH *T'-ill&lt;»M«nTT I fgfBTift: msmim* 113311 ^ 5r^rnn fWv^ivwT: i 3TTrT: ^ Hf: 113*11 29-34 EFFECTS OF DIVISIONAL DIGNITIES OF THE TWO PLANETS SO RELATED : Should an angular lord and a trinal lord having such a relationship (vide above slokas) be in Parijatamsa, the native will be king and will protect men, if Uttamamsa he will be an excellent king endowed with eleph- ants, horses, chariots etc , if in Gopuramsa he will be a tiger of kings honoured by other kings, and if in Simhasanamsa he will be an emperor ruling over the entire earth; with the said Raja- yoga relationship of the said planets in Simhasanamsa were born Harisehandra, Manu, Bali, the Fire god (Agni Deva) and many other emperors. In the present Yuga so born is Yudhishtira (or Dharma Raja of Malta Bharata). Salivahana’s birth and that of others will also come with this yoga. With these planets so related and in Paaravatamsa, Manu etc. were born. The Incarnations of Lord Vishnu took place when the said planets, being so related, were in Devalokamsa; and in Brahmalokamsa Lord Brahma and in Iravatamsa the Swayambhu Manu (the first of the 14 Manus identified as the second creator who produced the Prajapatis and to the said Manu the code of laws viz. Manu- smriti is ascribed) were born. Notes : The two planets, viz. an angular lord and a trinal lord with such a relationship, should be simultaneously in Parijatamsa. One in Parijatamsa and the other in a still higher Amsa will yield still better effects. The reader can intelligently manipulate the effects according to such Anisas. When studying these slokas, we reach a crucial point as to the period of Parasara. There are baseless arguments that Parasara, author of Brihat Parasara Hora, could not be a sage that lived thousands of years ago; but a very recent author tnat should have lived after Varaha Mihira, Bhattotpala, Kalyana Varma and so on and So forth. This misconception does not 412 Brihai Parasara Hora S antra deserve an answer at all and is worth being brushed aside as an idle gossip. The holders of such opinion may advance a million arguments in their own favour. Our query to them is: which exponent referred to the horoscopic positions of Lord Vishnu, Harischandra, Manu, Bali Chakravartbi, Agni Deva, Swayambhu Manu and last but not the least the Creater Brahma himself? Is it humanly possible, but for a sage, with divine contacts, to produce combinations existing in the sacred horoscopes of Vishnu, Brahma etc.? Also note with specific attention the state- ment of Parasara that “Dharma Raja (the eldest son of king Pandu, of Maha Bharata) of the present age, has this yoga”. Does this not stand as an indisputable testimony of Parasara having lived in the Maha Bharata era ? Yet, another clue about Parosara is served when in the above lines we find his prediction that Salivahana and others “will be born” with this yoga. The verb used is bhavita in future tense. That conveys that Parasara was a predecessor of Salivahana and not a successor of Bhattotpala etc. Maharshi Jaimini, author of Poorva Mimamsa and propag- ator of Jaimini Astrology was a disciple of Parasara. If Parasara lived in the 17th century, what about Jaimini ? Specific attention of the reader is drawn to the statement of Parasara in "sloka 32 above, to the effect that “in the present Yuga” Dharma Raja is born with such a yoga. This is an ample proof that our sage was in Maha Bharata time and was the illustrious parent of illustrious Veda Vyasa. Lastly, the following popular quotation enlists Parasara among the 18 exponents of Jyotisha : gif: anfft Tfwtsfa TOSTT : | ifnpTTl TTTSt *pff || it This is again a proof that our sage was indeed a sage of Mahabharata era and is an authority with crown for Kali yuga astrology. 31*? 11*^11 Chapter 42 Combinations For Penury EH3T iftm «JdT*d*Tt) wu g% ! I «ftrrPT $&lt;im wrqj* SJtR&gt; ! U?ll 1. O Lord, you have stated many yogas rnlated to acqui- sition of wealth. Please tell me such yogas causing utter poverty. fNehft TITO TCMI^II 2. The native will be penniless if the ascendant lord is in the 12th as the 12th lord is in the ascendant along with a Maraka lord (death inflicting planet) or be in aspect to such a planet. SP%71 q'ESTf 1 spt5&gt;t: ii^n 3. The native will be penniless if the ascendant lord is in the 6th while the 6th lord is in the ascendant with conjuntion or aspect of a Maraka lord. fcr grreft wrtnmi * « % 4. Should the ascendant or the Moon be with Ketu whih the ascendant lord is in the 8th, the person cencerned will b&lt; penniless. ' « TT3l^tftfsq f?TERt II SOI 5. If the ascendant lord along with a malefic is in the 6th, 8th or 12th while the 2nd lord is in an enemy's sign or in debili- tatton, even a native of royal scion will become penniless. 414 Brihat Farasara 11 ora Sastra 'TT'retS » « c fTORV ?R: 11^11 6. If the ascendant lord is conjunct an evil house lord (one of the 6th, 8th and 12th lords) or Saturn and be devoid of benefic aspect the native will be penniless, SPTfTm^ ^*TTrT I %7RRifl7R f?TSR&gt; 3n^ ?R: livsll 7. Should the 5th and 9th lords be respectively found in the 6th and 12th and be in aspect to Maraka planets, the native will be penniless. 7THrotTffuqt fa;u! \ *TRTFSm£ 3 TTtT: RlfrTEfot italic;!! 8. If malefics, excepting the lords of the 10th and 9th, be in the ascendant in association with or aspect to Maraka planets, one will become penniless, fa^tTTT m STTSTFIT ^RT^mf^f^cTT: 1 qprarciTrTT 31vft fatH: Util 9. Note the planets ruling the signs occupied by the lords of 6th, 8th and 12th, If the said depositors are in such evil houses in turn and be associated with or aspected by malefics, the native will be miserable and indigent. TOraffiRTOKft *TR^*WcT&gt; qfe I &gt;© *lfsq STTef^S^T 5R: II? oil 10. The lord of the Navamsa occupied by the Moon joining a Maraka planet or occupying a Maraka house will make one penniless. Ufa I if cat sTTcfterit ^ninii 11. Should the lord of natal ascendant and that of Nava- msa ascendant be conjunct or be aspected by Maraka planets, one will be penniless. Chapter 42 415 ■ff Wm F HW T: 'Tl'H: W: \ «&amp; .» . o -f?T5rT&gt; snq&lt;T aqififT: ii^ii 12. If inauspicious houses are occupied by benefics while auspicious houses are occupied by malefics, the native will be indigent and will be distressed even in the matter of food. t* faqm: sfaciT s^i; \ $ S* **?*mft% *»JcTT:H^U 13. A planet associated with one of the lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th, being bereft of a trinal lord’s aspect, will in its Dasa periods cause harm to the native’s financial aspects. farnqp? sri 14. If the 8th/1 2th from Atmakaraka or from the natal ascendant be aspected by Atmakaraka Navamsa lord and the natal ascendant lord, the native will be bereft of wealth. cqtr S^TcT actZR | 15. The native will be a spendthrift if the 12th from Atmakaraka is aspected by the depositor of Atmakaraka or if the 12th from the natal ascendant is aspected by the ascendant lord. u\%\\ a* t»?V3l» q^TtJfTtJrT OTTCT \ 16-18. Now I tell you some yogas for poverty along with conditions of their nullifications. Should Mars and Saturn be together in the 2nd house, the native’s wealth will be destroyed. 416 Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra Should Mercury aspet the said two planets in the 2nd, there will be great wealth. There is no doubt in it. The Sun in the 2nd in aspect to Saturn will cause penury while the Sun so placed if be not aspected by Saturn will give riches and fame. The same effects (i.e. poverty) be declared if Saturn is in the 2nd in aspect to the Sun. sranrcfaiHTra: n*3ii Chapter 43 Longevity 'JTTTarmnr^ sth *&gt;*to?* hi?u 1. O Sage, you have dealt with combinations for wealth and poverty. Kindly detail methods of ascertaining the life span of human beings. 'JGC r*nTT feq ! ^ f^^qi [ yqqn-q Tqtft ST?T qg gTTfa ll^ir &amp;qf STTTT*nTT5Tq Siq^Tfa rT^TSUcT: ll^ll 2-3. O Brahmin, for the benefit of mankind I narrate methods of ascertaining longevity, as knowing longevity is diffi- cult even for gods. Many exponents have laid down various methods of longevity calculations. Following is the summary of such schools of thoughts. Notes : Slokas 2-15 deal with Pindayu system of longevity calculations. After dealing with translation of these 14 slokas, the entire system of Pindayu is being fully explained by me with a practical example so that the reader follows the calculations involved thoroughly. Chapter 43 417 $51 3*Tg;snntr*T: i Hwsrrfar ttott: kivii fqw?Ta: ttt &lt;T* ^rft«rfcra?rrqw i TiWfa fgrr«?5S ! «r»T 6 ^PTqTTHH: II HU Timer grffttr^T 1 T^'&lt;?T?msTfwfmmitST;f: *TC?*T: ll^ll 5T£e*ft fr?rf5T*m*TT 3nmfT®«T: SWptmtff: I sftaTfc^ereijs:^ ?N m^i^TRWt llvsll fT^amst T*?: JTVm TT'KI^pT) *PT®3&lt;TTrT I re fq^gfc Kft smt mfmrFta «nm:iicii 4-8. PINDAYU : The planets contribute longevity accord- ing to their being in exaltation or debilitation, and also based on their strengths and weaknesses and positions in Aswini etc. and in the various signs. First of all Pindayu, based on the planetary positions. O brahmin, listen to what I say, with singlemindedness. 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 and 20 are the numper of years contributed by the planets from the Sun etc. when in (deep) exaltation. Thesr are half of the above in (deep) fall, and if the planets are in between exaltation and fall, rule of three process should be used, Deduct the actual position of the planet from its deep exaltation point. If the product is less than 6 signs, deduct it again from 12 signs. The product concer- ned be multiplied by the number of years allotted to the planet and divided by 12 to get the planet’s actual contribution. 9. RECTIFICATIONS : Excepting Venus and Saturn, the contributions made by others should be halved, if they are eclipsed, by the Sun. One third should be reduced if the planet is in its inimical sign. This does not apply to the one in retrogression (see vakra charam). mmg m ftmr: tit) ?rr?r sr^*? 418 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra g wgtWit ssft *r§: &gt; •ITS^T wfaTFT ^S&lt;R7 TRc^ gfafa; FtJePT 11 1 ? 11 10-11. DEDUCTIONS FOR PLANETS IN VISIBLE HALF : Full, half, one third, one fourth, one fifth and one sixth are the deductions of contributions made by maiefics placed in the visible half of the zodiac. Benefics in such cases lose only half of what maiefics lose. Should there be more than one planet in a house, the deduction due to the strongest will only prevail and not due to other planets in that particular house. Waning Moon is a benefic for this purpose. ' HRtfrfafawT jrron sifW f^m^T i ritaifcj H^il *T^|% * aw ! n^n 12-13. MALEFICS IN ASCENDANT : In case the ascen- dant is occupied by maiefics, adopt tbe following procedure : Convert the ascendant’s sphuta into minutes of arc and multiply it by the years etc. contributed by the occupant and divide by 21600. The years etc. so arrived be deducted from the respective contribution which will be the net span donated by the planet. If there is benefic’s aspect on the ascendant containing maiefics, then the loss is only half (obtained through these calculations) tTraifolfT t'TiRFJ: fcsfa jitfaST: ll^ Vti TTftrgeti ^ II It XI I 14-15. ASCENDANT'S CONTRIBUTION : The number of years contributed by the ascendant will correspond to the number of signs it gained (from Aries) while the degrees the ascendant gained in the particular sign will alsocorrespondingly donate (i.e. 30 degrees— 1 year). If the Navamsa Ascendant lord is stronger than the ascendant lord, then the contribution be computed only based on the Navamsas gained (from Chapter 43 419 Aries), otherwise the computation will be for the Rasi ascendant only. Notes : The seven planets from the Sun to Saturn respec- tively contribute 19,25,15,12, 15, 21 and 20 years when on deep exaltation degree. The contributions are just halved when these are on deep debilitation degrees. The deep exaltation degrees for the 7 planets respectively from the Sun on are : Aries 10°, Taurus 3°, Capricorn 28’, Virgo 15°, Cancer 5°, Pisces 27° and Libra 20°. By adding 180°, to the said degrees, we get deep debilitation points for the concerned planets. After find- ing out the individual contributions of span of longevity, the same are to be rectified which method is being explained in appropriate place in the following paragraphs. To work out the longevity through Pindayu method, we will take up the horoscope of a male bom on 21.5.1944 at 19h 01m 1 5s (WT) at 13N40 79E20. The Rasi and Bhava charts as reuqired for our purpose are : Merc Moon Ven Sun Sat Rasi Mars Jup Rahu Ketu Asc 420 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra Merc Moon Ven Sun Sat Bhava . Mars Rahu Ketu Jup Asc The planetary longitudes in tht respective signs as per Lahiri Ayanamsa (23-4-12) are : The Sun 7-12-18, the Moon 27-35-46, Mars 6-18-46, Mercury 14-54-13, Jupiter 26-7-13, Venus 27-17-50, Saturn 3-9-41 and ascendant 0-48-34. The bhava starting points are : 1st — Libra 15-48-1 5, 2nd — ScoTpio 15-48-15, 3rd— Sagittarius 15-47-39, 4th— Capricorn 15-47-2, 5th — Aquari- us 15-47-1, 6th — Pisces 15-47-38, 7th — Aries 15-48-15, 8th — Taurus 15-48-15, 9th— GemiDi 15-47-38, 10th — Cancer 15-47-1, 11th — Leo 15-47-1 and Virgo 15-47-38. Based on the sage’s instructions, we may device the follo- wing simple and common formula to know the number of years contributed by any of the 7 planets. (All concerned longitudes should be converted into decimals. The minutes and seconds be also considered. For example, 21° 32' 49" is converted into 21.547 degrees for easy calculation.) The formula to find out the basic planetary contribution is : 1. If “d” is less than 180°, then “c” =f— (dXf-i-360) 2- If “d” is above 180° X f - 360 421 Chapter 43 Where “d” is distance between the planet’s deep exalta- tion degree and its actual placement; "f” is the full number of years grantable by the planet and V is the basic years actually granted by it due to its placement. Take Saturn’s case as an example. He can at best contri- bute 20 years. In the horoscope under evaluation, he is 223.1613 degrees away from his deep exaltation (Libra 20°). Hence to find out the basics ontribution of Saturn, we use rule 2 above, thus i - 2 23.1613 X 20 360 12.3979 years On this basis, we have for the example nativity, the follow- ing basic donations of years by the 7 planets : The Sun : 17.5642 years The Moon : 24.6247 years Mars : 8.4036 years Mercury : 6.9968 years Jupiter : 14.1200 years V Venus 19.2327 years Saturn : 12.3979 years These basic contributions will undergo the following reductions, as applicable. I. Astangata Harana'2. Satru Kshetra Harana 3. Vyayadi Harana 4. Kroorodaya Harana. These may be understood from the following paragraphs. 1. Astangata Harana : If a planet is combust reduce the span by half. However, this docs not affect Venus and Saturn in combustion. 2. Satru Kshetra Harana : If a planet is in its enemy’s sign, reduce one third of the basic years and take only two third. An exception is that a retrograde planet, although placed in inimjeal sign, does not incur this liability. ‘Vakrachara’ is the expression made by Maharshi Parasara and hence it excepts a retrograde planet. Mars also does lose in an enemy’s sign. Needless to mention, a planet in netural’s sig- , (or in friend’s sign) is not subjected to this reduction. 3. Vyayadi Harana : Planets entail reduction if placed any- where between the 12th and 7th (reckoned in descending order). hrihat Parasara Hora Sasira This need not be mistaken to be Drisyardha Hani. Drisyardha means that half of the zodiac which is visible. Hence it is 180° behind the ascendental cusp, i.e. upto descendant via meridian. Vyayadi Harana figures are : full, half, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5 and l/6h according to the planet being in 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th, 8th and 7th. These are for malefic planets while a benefic in this con- nection loses only half of what is noted for a malefie. The Moon is ever a benefic for longevity calculations, as . per Maharshi Parasara. (Mercury although joining a malefic be treated as a benefic only, for all longevity calculations.) We find here that there is harmonic progression in these deductions and hence we ought to have a scientific and logical approach to the quantum of correction, rather than resorting to a flat check arbitrarily. There is no justification in straightaway eliminating the whole, for example, for a malefic in the 12th not giving heed to his actual degreewise placement. It should be full at the 12th bhava ending point, poroprtionately less on the 12th cusp and still lesser on the beginning point of 12th bhava or 1 1th bhava ending point. That is, starting with a 100% less on the 12th bhava ending we gradually arrive for a 50% reduction at the point where the llth bhava ends. Thus it will be one sixth reduction at the end of 7th bhava while it will be l/7th at the beginaing of the 7th bhava (or end of the 6th bhava). The reduction obtained by this method should bo half in the case of a benefic (i.e. Jupiter,' Venus, Mercury and the Moon). With- out going through any difficult process, for each bhava, a common formula is given with which one can rectify the basic contributions of a planet in one of these houses. The formula is : ‘c’ (14-House)- (DP ~RL) =loss of * ears (DP=Distance of planet from bhava start; BL=Bhava length and ‘House’ is the bhava occupied by the planet under rectification. To understand this formula, we will rectify Saturn’s contribution He is in the 8th bhava and hence attracts this reduction. He is in Gemini 3-9-41 while the 8th house begins in Taurus at 15-48-15 and ends at 15-47-38 in Gemini. Thus the length of the 8th bhava is 29-59-33 or 29.9925 degrees, which is ‘SL* for our purpose. The basic contribution of Chapter 43 423 Saturn is 12.3979 years. He is 17.3572 degreer ahead of the 8th bhava beginning. Therefore, his reduction is 12 3979 (l4 _g)_( 17 .3572-29.9925) ==2 ' 2869 yearS Thus, on account of Vyayadi Harana, Saturn entails a check of 2 2869 years. In the example horoscope. Mercury is not liable to this reduction as he is quite prior to the beginning of the 7th bhava. Others that attract this check are : The Sun, the Moon, Venus, Mars and Jupiter. The figures for these planets based on the present formula are : Venus The Sun The Moon Saturn Wars Jupiter (7th bhava) (7 th bhava) v 7th bhava) (8th bhava) (9 th bhava) (10th bhava) 1.4533 years 2.7939 years 1.8636 years 2.2869 years 1.9472 years 1.9314 years 4. Kroorodaya Harana : Only malefics (i.e. Saturn, the Sun and Mars) entail this check if in the ascendant. Mercury, though joining a natural malefic will not be liable to this reduction. We do not require this reduction to any planet in the example horoscope, as there is none in the ascendant. Here the ascendant means the area between the starting and ending points of the sign rising. To find out this reduction, the ascendental cusp in degrees, minutes and seconds be multiplied by the number of basic years donated by the malefic concerned and divided by 21600. The divider is 21600 as these are the total minutes of arc in the zodiac. The figure so arrived should be reduced from the said malefic’s basic contribution. However, if a benefic aspects the said malefic, reduce only half of the figure so suggested. 5. We have thus seen four types of reductions. At every stage the reduction should not be done instantaneously. After obtaining the reduction figures, wherever permitted, check up if there is more than one reduction for one and the same planet under various headings. The following may be remembered in this connection. (a) If a planet attracts more man one reduction, the highest reduction is only to be done ignoring the others. For 424 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra example, assume Mercury attracts a reduction of 7.5 years due to rule 1, followed by 2.3 years due to rule 2 and 4.35 years due to rule 3. The highest reduction is due to rule 1 and hence only 7.5 is to be deducted and the other two figures be ignored in toto. (b) In case of Vyayadi Harana (rule 3), two or three planets may be in one bhava. In that case, the strongest loses and the other (or others) will not lose. Not only the planets, but the ascendant also grants a certain number of years. This figure should also be found out before adding to the planetary contributions. To know the the number of years granted by the ascendant, firstly note the number of signs intervening between Aries and the sign before the ascendant. That is, if Sagittarius is the ascendant, count upto Scorpio beginning from Aries. This denotes 8 years. The degrees in the ascendant be also proportionately converted into years treating 30 degrees as one year, or 2.5 degrees as a month. The contribution of ascendant will be so calculated if the ascendant lord is stronger than the Navamsa Lagna lord. In case the Navamsa Lagna lord is stronger than his counterpart, a different computation is to be resorted to, thus. Count from Aries till you reach a sign before Navamsa Lagna. In the case under study, the Navamsa Lagna lord. Moon, is stronger than the ascendant lord. Hence we compute Navamsa Lagna’s contribution for our own use. The Navamsa Lagna is Cancer. Hence from Aries to Cancer we have three completed Navamsas which give 3 year. The ascending degree is 0-48-34 whereas one Navamsa is 3° 20*. Proportionately thus we get another 0.2428 years and have the total contribution of 3.2428 years as Ascendant’s contribution. In case of Navamsa treat 3° 20' as one full year. - The ascendant’s contribution under- goes no check. Now wc are ready for final reductions. There are 3 planets in the 7th house, viz. the Sun, the Moon and Venus. The Sun is the strongest and henee Vyayadi Harna (rule 3) applies to only the Sun while Venus and the Moon are rid of reduction on this score. The Sun is in enemy’s camp and on this score he loses a third of 17 5642, which reduction is equal to 5.8547. This figure is higher than the one obtained for the 425 Chapter 43 Sun as per rule 3 (i.e. Vyayadi Harana). Hence his final contribution turns to be 11.7095 years (i e. basic years minus Satru kshetra Harana). In the matter of Vyayadi Harana (rule 3) there is no other bhava where there is more than one planet. Though the Moon has not lost on account of rule 3 (Vyayadi Harana), she is liable to reduction on account of her combustion (rule 1). Thus when her basic contribution (24 627) is halved, she is left with a net donation of 12 3124 years. Except the Sun, no other planet is in enemy’s sign. So, Satru Kshetra Harana (rule 2) does not apply to others. Now the final contributions may be noted as below : Planet Basic yrs. Reduction Reason Net yrs. Sun 17.5642 l/3rd Rule 2 11.7095 Moon 24.6247 1/2 Rule 1 123124 Mars 08.4036 9th bhava Rule 3 06.4564 Mercury 06.9968 Nil 06.9968 Jupiter 14.1200 10th bhava Rule 3 12.1886 Venus 19.2327 7th bhava exempted 19.2327 Saturn 12.3979 8th bhava Rule 3 10.1110 Lagna 3 2428 Total : 82 2502 These years are in Savanamana (360 days a year) as we have used 360° of the zodiac. To apply this to Gregorian calendar, we have to convert the same into Sauramana. By simply multiplying the said figure by. 0.9856034, we can get Sauramana. Thus in the case of our example, we arrive at a net longevity in Sauramana as 8 1 .06 years. The dasa period so obtained are Pinda Dasa of the 7 planets and the Lagna. II the Sun is strongest in the horoscope, effects can be worked out on Pinda Dasa method. 426 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra str ft* ! fawn?*: \ t*R&gt;5RRRtm CTr€|: fifcT: RRT?T*R fjl I ^TfRRrERTR R&gt;RT3T 5TRT R$Tn ; RRTT fRTTRSIT: II ^ V9) 1 16-17 NISARGA YU : O Brahmin, now I tell you about Nisargayu 1&gt; 2, 9, 20, 18, 20 and 50 are the years allotted to the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter the Sun and Saturn from the period of birth. Notes : Except giving the number of years applicable to Naisargayu, there is no other mention about rectification etc. in our version as well as in that of Chaukambha Sanskrit Sansthana. However, we have some more instructions in the version given by Thakur Prasad Pustak Bhandar. The relevant portion is as under : tr&lt;r fan fanifPr ii This conveys to us that the years dehoted for the planets are when they are in deep exaltation. These are halved at-deep debilitation. Then the rectifications are the same as applicable to Pindayu. So to say, the four kinds of reductions suggested for Pindayu be performed for Nisargayu as well. Ascendant also contributes in Nisargayu. The method of its contribution in Nisargayu is also the same as seen in Pindayu scheme. 3T*Tis?TTJT tftRRTRt t&amp;JRT RrRm*R$tT I 'Rife t?TT WT: HRj?RT tT^*T f T«rTf4'?i*{ \ ^RTSRTjTfqei 5flR«RTO?TTJjR: U? 6.11 18-19. AMSAYU : Now about Amsayu contributions by the ascendant and planets. The years correspond to the number of Navamsas counted from Aries. Multiply the longitude in question by 108. If the product exceeds 12, expunge multiples of 12 and consider the final product in Rasi, degrees etc. as years, months etc. 427 Chapter 43 Notes : The 7 planets and the ascendant contribute to longevity as per Amsayurdhaya method based on the Navamsas covered. 3® 20' longitude equals one year. Thus the basic contributions can be worked out as per the example given for the Lagna’s longitude in thePindayu scheme. Similar understanding can be extended to planetary longitudes. The basic contributions thus found out be rectified in the same manner as explained for Pindajayu. The sage puts forth a different suggestion as enunciated by another school of thought in regard to recti- fication of Amsayu, in the following slokas : 3T^TSTTt IRoll fgTTof [\R\n sntf t sjfaw n^n 20-22. Tlie same* reductions as per Pindayu apply to Arnsaju a&amp; well; i e. half for a combust planet, one third for in ; mical placement and the ones due for placements in the half of the zodiac counted from the 1 2th backwards. Some scholars suggest further corrections for Amsayu, viz. to increase three- fold the contribution of a planet in exaltation or in own house and double the contribution if the contributor is in his own Navamsa Or in own decanate. If doubling and trebling is warranted, only trebling be done. In case of reductions also, only halving is to be done if both halving and reducing a third are required. That is how the final life span of men be understood . Notes : Rectification of Amsayu be done, taking the basic contributions as detailed below. (a) Treble the basic years if the planet is exalted or in own sign. (b) Double if in own Navamsa or own decanate. (e) Among ‘a’ and ‘b\ if both are needed only ‘a* is to be effected. 428 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra (d) No clear instructions are found about halving the contribution or casting off a third Halving, however, obviously applies to a debilitated planet while loss of a third part applies to a planet in inimical sign. In the matter of deduction also, only halving is to be effected if both reductions are required for one and the same planet. ^ ^R I tmf TOIRT *RRT Rjj *T%&lt;T II ^ }|| / 23. LONGEVITY FOR OTHER LIVING BEINGS : For other living beings as well such computations be made. The said figure be multiplied by the figure corresponding to its full span of life and divided by the figure corresponding to Tull span of life for human beings 3Tsntr: 'R* HRRifoTgtrsR* i 3rrwr Nrhi^Wt ^ fjTsftfPT i u^yii 9^-3Rr-'&lt;Tc&lt;RTR03 , CRT $R^tR c TBT?T§rK7R TTSRRT 5Rf)f?R14 \ JTtmri &lt;t«iti«^ii grF^srr^ i fa?TRRtRTP&gt;JT ^ q't^I I ^ fa'FRT §-RWT«*!R: n^cll ’TTTRcTRT B , $4J£RT ?RTW4&gt;*T I f?RT3&lt;r?3TRT 'BT TTR: ?TfRf?nT: |) 24-29. FULL LIFE SPAN OF VARIOUS LIVING BEINGS : J now tell you the full lire span figures for various hvmg beings. Gods and sages enjoy endless lire span (i.e. in astronomica! proportions as against ordinary mortals). The lull life span of eagles, owls, parrots, crows and snakes is one thousand years. Falcon, monkey, bear, and frog-tne full span ofhfem these cases is 300 years. Demon’s life span in full is 150 years while it is 120 years for human beings. 32 years for Chapter 43 429 horses, 25 years for donkeys and camels, 24 years for oxen and buffaloes, 20 years for peacocks, 16 years for goats and rams. 14 years for swans, 12 years for cuckoo, dog and dove, 8 years for hens etc, and 7 years for birds etc.— these are full life spans for various living beings. H&amp;TSfHT sffcei ! 1 « C N Tth frotari *T§r* wfoii ?nn u*?u 30-31. CHOICE OF LONGEVITY : I have narrated 3 different methods of longevity. Listen to me about the choice among the three systems. According to the ascendant, the Sun or the Moon being stronger than the other two, Amsayu, Pindayu or Nisargayu be respectively chosen. snmri iM. ffritawl n^» 32. DOUBTFUL CASES : If 2 among the ascendants the Sun and the Moon gain equal strength, then longevity be worked out as per both systems and the average of both (final) be consi- dered. If all the 3 are equally strong, the average of the 3 be considered. Notes : In slokas 30 and 31 above, we are asked to select one among the 3 systems, viz Pindayu, Naisargayu and Amsayu according to the Sun, the Moon and ascendant being the strongest. If two among the three have equal Shadbala, then the average of the respective systems will be the final longevity. If the three are of equal strength, the average of three systems be taken to be actual life duration of the native. Take for example where the Sun and the Moon are equally strong and assume that Pindayu indicates a life span of 52.5 years while Nisargayu gives 40.7 years. The average of these two, i.e. 46.35 years will be the actual longevity. Similarly assume that the luminaries and the ascendant are equally strong, and contribute 62.9 years Pindayu, 25.5 years 430 Drihat Parasara Hora Sastra Nisargayu and 12.8 years of Amsayu. The average of these three, i,e, 33.73 years will be the actual longevity of the native, q$qTfq 'T’T ! I q^§*qf ?rqq ?fTvrat^at^ppirt ST^rcTtTiT 1 ^ &gt;3 O N JTrI vpTTIwthllwji tftqifqr fafqqpta HVStl %qtq q?*rP2T?qf IThf q^ %3T&gt;TTq 1 » rrq^tTlfqvPqi^lf &lt;Jcftq qftfq^rT n^V.M folcft ft =trT rRt ?*HgqTfrT*T ► fr^Tsqfr g 73 ^hTqrq^Tqifq fg 113411 ffqtsf£R^cT tUT q^qg^T^q I qT5 ; ? fFqrftfqq ! qtqqTq^^TTfq q U^U • rr^^Rsqft rs j&gt; qr fwqrft enrt \ 3TTcT^q cRTS?qpj?fqqq fesftrTq ! 113*11 *&gt;qqq"T qfqrfqf f?T5 qi^q ^ 1 tftti^rfqqqi^ iq^TTfq^er: ii^ii qT qT^r’ q^|?TRTqT \ tjferq mzm fqfirsn qqqr q£; u*e n 33-40. OTHER CLUES TO LONGEVITY : O excellent of the Brahmins, I give you details of other methods in the matter of longevity as under : This is based on the positions of the ascendant lord, 8th lord, Saturn, the Moon, natal ascendant and Hora ascendant (Hora Lagna). These six are grouped into three groups thus : the lords of the ascendant and of the 8th on the one hand, Saturn and the Moon on the other hand, and the natal ascendant and Hora ascendant on yet the other hand. Out of a group, if the two are in movable sign/signs long life is denoted. One in fixed sign and the other in a dual sign will also bestow long life. One in movable aign and the other in fixed sign will give medium life. If both are in dual sign then again medium life will be obtained. Short life is denoted if one is in a movable sign as the other is in a common sign, or if both are in fixed signs. The type of life denoted by three or two Chapter 43 431 groups be only considered. If (he three groups denote different scales, then the one indicated by the pair of natal ascendant 'and Hora aseendant be only considered. In case of three different indications if the Moon fs in the ascendant or the 7th, then the one indicated by Saturn-Moon pair will only come to pass. Notes : Three groups are considered here for this system of longevity calculations. Following are the three groups, each group consisting two of the six. 1st group — natal ascendant lord and 8th lord from the ascendant. 2nd group — Saturn and the Moon. 3rd group — natal ascendant and Hora Langa. (For Hora Lagna, see p. 63). Thus two planets in one group, two planets in another group and two ascendants in yet another group are selected. Now their positions will denote the basic longevity. Note the position of each of the constituent in each group thus : 1. Long life : If both the constituents are in movable signs (jointly or separately), long life will come to pass. One in fixed sign and another in a dual sign will also give same scale of longevity. 2. Medium life : One in movable sign and another fixed sign will give medium life. Both in dual signs will also give same effects. 3. Short life : One in movable sign and another in dual sign will indicate short . life. Both of them in fixed signs will produce again short life. Thus, all the six possible positions of a pair are covered. Which group is to be considered for arriving at life span and in what circumstances be understood thus. 4. Out of the three groups, the scale of span (viz. long, medium and short) indicated by two or three be considered. Suppose two groups indicate medium life while another short life, then take medium span as. the basic one. Alternatively if three indicate identical scales, i e. long, short or medium, consider that as the case may be. It is also possible that one group denotes long life, another medium life and yet another short life. In that case follow point 5 given below. 432 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 5. If 3 groups denote variable spans, the group of natal ascendant and Hora ascendant will have a say on the indication. Whatever this pair denotes will be the basic span in case of three different indications. 6. Rule 5 has also an exception, thus. That is, in the case of three different indications (i.e. one long life, another medium life and yet another short life), see the position of the Moon in the natal horoscope. If she is in the ascendant or in the 7th, then the indication given by the pair of Hora-natal ascendants be ignored and the indication of Saturn-Moon be alone considered. If the Moon is neither in the ascendant nor in the 7th, then follow the indication of Hora-natal ascendants as given in rule 2 above. q**T*TT TfffaWTi I)*?!! ffW . HYRII HiSRTO: 5THTH^cT IIVVII 41-44. FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS : If long life is denoted by all the said three groups, the span is 120 years, if by two groups it is 108 years and if only by one group it is 96 years. If medium life is arrived at. by three groups, it is 80 years, by 2 groups 72 years and by one group 64 years. If short life is denoted by the said three groups it is only 32 years, if by two groups 36 years and by one group 40 years. These are rectified as under. Notes : Again, the sage fixes the quantum of years for long, short, and medium life spans, thus. Long life : by 3 pairs — 120 years (harmonic reduction of 12 years) 2 pairs — 180 years 1 pair — 96 years Chapter 43 433 Medium life : by 3 pairs — 80 years (harmonic reduction of 8 years) • 2 pairs — 72 years 1 pair — 64 years Short life : by 3 pairs — 32 years (progressive increase of 4 years) 2 pairs — 36 years 1 pair — 40 years The indication has to be selected as per rules 4 to 6 given in the notes for slokas 33-40. We will now work out the basic contribution of longevity for the same example as given for Pindayu calculations. The chart may be understood from Pindayu example, while Hora Lagna is Taurus 20° 32' 12". The first group — ascendant lord is in a movable sign and the 8th lord is also in a movable sign. Hence long life. The second group — Saturn and the Moon are respectively in dual sign and movable sign. Hence short life. The third group — Hora Lagna and the natal ascendant are both in fixed signs. Again short life. Two groups indicate short life. Hence we are left with no dilemma but to select the indications given by the two groups, i.e. short life. Two pairs indicate short life, hence 36 years will be the basic longevity. This basic longevity will have to be rectified further as per the instructions given in the following verses. TTCtTjfcti llTfinHi»S3«TT?T(T: I $?r. HTOqqffefofft StTOTW IlY^U 45-46. RECTIFICATIONS : If the contributor is in the beginning of a sign, his dotation will be full and it will be nil if he is at the end. For intermediary placements, rule of three process will apply. Add the longitudes of the contributors (devoid of signs) and the sum so arrived at be divided by the number of contributors. The latest product be multiplied by the 434 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra number of basic years and divided by 30. This will yield the net longevity. Notes : If the contributor is in the zero degree of the sign, his share will be full and if be is at the end, it will be zero. In between, his .contribution j s proportionately known. The longitudes of the contributors, according to beiiig 2 or 4 or 6 as the case may be should be added together, devoid of signs. The resultant product be divided by 2 or 4 or 6 depending on the contributors. This figure should be multiplied by basic years and divided by 30 which will be net span of life. Basic years will also depend on whether one, two or three spans are being considered. When we are considering short life by 3 pairs, such figure will be 96 (i.e. 32 X 3) or when medium life by 2 pairs are being considered it will be 144, (i.e. 72x2) and so on and so forth. In -the example horoscope, we have short life contributed by 2 pairs and hence basic years for the time being be taken as 72 (i.e. 36 plus 36). The contributors are Moon, Saturn, Mars and Mercury. Their longitudes devoid of signs added denote 51° 58' 26”. This is to be divided by 4, as there are 4 contri- butors Thus we get 12° 59’ 37”. This is to be multiplied by 72 (basic years) and divided by 30. The net longevity in this process is 31.18 years. Though Pindayu applies to the said horoscope, we have simply taken the same as an example in regard to the application of the current system. si uvvsu 47. SPECIAL RULE FOR SATURN : Should Saturn be a contributor, the class of longevity declines. Some advocate, contrarily, an increase of class in this context. If Saturn is in own sign or in exaltation, change in class will not occur. Even if he is aspected by or conjunct only a malefic, no change occurs. ■ . " Chapter 43 435 ?**5W*PT*T | q»fa&lt;npjr*w&gt; rsrsr l vwrefis: srsmHl iiycsii 4 «. 48. SPECIAL RULE FOR JUPITER : If Jupiter is in the ascendant or in the 7th house, and be aspccted by or conjunct only benefics, the class of longevity will increase. qH tfqfgnhGftsftrci? HY5.ll t^rctn; #qOc^57 tot tu°u 49-50. INCREASE AND FALL IN CLASS OF LONGEVITY : From very short life to short life, from short life to medium life, from medium life to long life and from long life to extremely long life are the increases in the classification of longevity when Jupiter warrants an increase. The reverse is true if Saturn warrants a fall in the span of life. anqqt agur tfan *rqmsa?n « qrfatn *TT HSLf II 51. (Maitreya says) : You have narrated various kinds of longevity computations. Please favour me by denoting subtle classes there of and poor and long life spans. gtnifbwi ****** *N**» i fs«j #qT$fa?i nx^ti 52. (Parasara replies) : These are seven-fold, viz. Balarishta, yogarishta, short, medium, long, super-natural (Divya) and illimitable. UMiPire 5 t*tt tfttnfw ■at ¥%^rfw: i q^TTT 315^ ggcqftarg IIX^II fwifa*rc?T i USOfll 53-54. The life span in Balarishta is 8 years, in Yogarishta 20 years; in short, medium and long lives 32, 64 and 120 years 436 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra in order are the spans. Super natural life span is for 1 000 years. Above this supernatural life span of 1000 years it is Amifayu or illimitable longevity which can be acquired only by Merits. an* «rpnfr*u: wrr 3ifa?Tro5a5T unnu 55. LIMITLESS LONGEVITY : Should Cancer ascend with Jupiter and the Moon there in while Venus and Mercury are in angles and others are in 3rd, 6th and 11th, the native will obtain limitless longevity. fcsifaisVifsn': 'nmtsqiSTfrnn frail jnrenit nn^u 56. SUPER-NATURAL LONGEVITY: One having benefics in angles/trines as malefics are in 3rd, 6th and 1 1th will obtain super-natural life span (one thousand years). The 8th house in this case should be one of benefic-owned signs. ^ «irTT3f?rfaiSi t fSTCfW f?5I 1 ll^ll 57. LIVING TILL THE END OF YUGA : One born in Cancer ascendant will live till the end of the yuga if Jupiter is in an angle and be in Gopuramsa while Venus is in a trine and be in Paaravatamsa. gtV iixdi 58. LIVING THE LIFE SPAN OF A SAGE : Jupiter in Simhasanamsa being in the ascendant, Saturn in Devalokamsa and Mars in Paaravatamsa— if these are so, one will enjoy the life span as due to a sage. ^n*j: ?f*n i 345ft q&gt;TT?ni ^ until 59. Good yogas increase the life span and bad yogas decrease the same (as arrived by mathematical means). Hence Chapter 43 437 I tell you such yogas as to know of full, medium and short span combinations. * 7r?nferdf i ^^JTT arrsftf yFIJTWfcT?! 60. If an angle contains a benefic while the ascendant lord is conjunct or in aspect to a benefic or Jupiter in particular, the native will live a foil span of life, eTfVUt ^rsftf ytftTT^ f^vld 11$ $11 61. Should the ascendant lord be in an angle in con- junction with or in aspect to Jupiter and Venus, full life span will result. 'Tl'Tgft * g^Tl^fiirftfktfcT II^U 62. If at birth 3 planets are exalted, out of which the lords of ascendant and 8th are inclusive, as the 8th is devoid of a malefic tn it, full life span will result, *it&lt;ni$3ii 63. Long life is denoted if 3 planets are in the 8lh, in exaltation, own/friendly divisions while the ascendant lord is strong. %*ufi wfaRT: i aspsa^sfr: u$xit 64. If Saturn or the ascendant lord is conjunct with any exalted planet, long life will result. fafrmn#: %r«fsnFt«nT: i * 65. Long life will be enjoyed if malefics are in 3rd, 6lb and 1 Ith while benefics are in angles. 438 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrn farfttj * «n^ 66. If the 6th, 7lh and 8th are occupied by benefics while malefics are in 3rd and 11th, full life span will follow the birth. Mini 1 tfifi?* * T?rin: ^w g wra i ft f$ 67. If the 8th lord is friendly to the Sun while malefics are in the 6th and 12th as the ascendant lord is in an angle, the native will live the full span of life. 3TT*J: gq wfcW T: «mT: n*T I tihfmij f*K*i i u^n 68. O excellent of the Brahmins, if a malefic is in the 8th while the 10 lord is exalted, one will be long-lived. wHrrrfaf^ 69. Long life will follow if a dual sign ascend at birth while its lord i 9 in an angle oe in exaltation or in a trine, raw *i w i$ wvwgrnfj i l&gt; qrtf if* frmV *W*ngw*T uv»oii 70. Should a common sign ascend while two malefics are in an angle with reference to strong ascendant lord, long life is indicated. IT. STS# I tr$ *ftefarg: im* n^u c •&gt; fsrWmsfw*^ ?rfar%ai u^n 71-73. The stronger among the ascendant lord and the 8th lord if in an angle will confer long life and if in Panaphara 435 Chapter 43 (2nd, 5th, 8th or 11th) medium life. If the said planet be in Apoklima (3rd, 6th, 9th or 1 2th) short life will come to pass. According to the ascendant lord being friendly, neutral or inimical to the Sun, long, medium or short life will result. areal*! weimg: snropcHwni 74. Should Mars and the 3rd lord, or the 8th lord and Saturn be combust or (two of either pair) be conjunct malefics or aspected by malefics, there will be short life. sera viAvl I •iraptTT'Tetit *T lt\9HU 75. If the ascendant lord is in the 6th, 8th or 12th in the company of malefics and be devoid of conjunction/aspect of a benefic, short life will come to pass. 'TT^ I 76. If malefics are in angles devoid of conjunction or aspect of bencfics while the ascendant lord is not strong, only short life wiil result. 77. O excellent of Brahmins, if the 12th and 2nd are occupied by malefics and be devoid of benefic aspect or company, the native will be short-lived. faspftirs* iivsqii , 9 0 S 78. If the lords of the ascendant and the 8th are bereft of dignities and strength, short life will come to pass If they are helped by others while being so, medium life will come to pass. aw mwfarwira: ttwn Chapter 44 Maraka (Killer) Planets «J«rt qTTV$*n* ||?U ]. O sage, you have mentioned a lot about longevity. Be kind enough to throw light on Marakas or killers. qritagg* T *q rTmq:f«yH' ss fj* ! i anrv «i(aimwiH fefW a«n ti^ti 2-5. O Brahmin, the 3rd and 8th are the two houses of longevity. The houses related to death are the 12th from each of these, i.e. the 2nd and 7th are Maraka houses. Notes : The 3rd house is also a house of longevity as it is the 8th from the 8th. The 2nd house — 12ih from the 3rd— and the 7th house — 12th from the 8th — are two principle Maraka houses. The lords of these houses will also acquire such qualities giving life or taking away life. ?T* *Tm: «Ttfq^!T b‘^TT: II VI * $ar: qrf*R*$ * *w qrcrcrewT: i fttH ^Taj iivii smwfas tflWT I famr jtw mxv qftfqRpfc; ny.ii 3. Out of the two (i.e 2nd and 7th) the 2nd is a powerful Maraka house (as against the 7th) The lords of the 2nd and the 7th, malefics in the 2nd and the 7th and malefics accompanying the 2nd and the 7th lords are all known as Marakas. The major and sub periods of these planets will bring death on the native depending on whether he has a long life, medium life or short life. Chapter 44 441 Notes : The 2nd and 7th are denoted as Maraka houses. But the 2nd is given a more important place to kill than the 7th house. For the 2nd house acquires an additional qualification of being in the 7th from the 8th house. Thus, the 2nd is 12th from the 3rd, and 7th from the 8tb. If there is a malefic in the 2nd or in the 7th, he will be a prime killer while a benefic will not be so. The Dasa periods of such planets will inflict death. I ^ u\u * 'TPTRt *?TTg faSR wfafT 1 9&amp;fori tirwRUTOft nun 6-7. The Dasa of a benefic planet related to the 12th lord may also inflict death. End may descend on the native in the 8th lord’s Dasa. The Dasa of a planet which is an exclusive malefic (i.e. first-rate malefic) may also cause death. Notes : The 12th house is also a house of death, for it is the terminal house. Malefics related to 2nd, 3rd, 7th and 8th will cause death while or not a benefic related to 12th will do so. The Dasa of a malefic, whether or not he is a lord of one of these houses, will also prove harmful for span of life. However, for Saturn, a different approach is recommended. The rules given are just general and are hints to decide death givers. The life span should be ascertained through other Ayurdaya calculations, and the exact dasa periods be decided only later on. Simply saying that the 2nd lord’s dasa will bring in death and so on and so forth will be a misnomer. The sage suggests that the occupants of the 3rd*also will cause death.. Thus the 8th and the 3rd, though known as houses of longevity, are simultaneously capable of causing death. For the information of the reader, the Maraka planets in the ascending are : occu- pants of or lords of 12th, 3rd, 8th, 7th and 2nd. The lords/ occupants of 6th and 1 1th are second grade killers. The last group consists of occupants/lords of 5th, 9th, 10th, 4th and 1st. They are the least marakas. However, these can also become Marakas depending on the clues given in slokas 15-21 infra. 442 Brihat Parasara tJora SastrO A difficult subject like longevity cannot be fully explained in a chapter like this. The reader may take basic guidelines from the present work and other standard works before forming an opinion on longevity. SRttfq TOR I *mq&gt;: ucu 8. The dasa of a malefic will not cause death in the Antar- dasa (sub period) of a benefic planet, although the former, is related to the latter, but in the sub period-.pf a malefic planet though not related. Hqfa * Hfw: ucu 9. Shold Saturn be ill-disposed and be related to a maraka plt^net, he will be the first to kill in preference to other planets, a^Ts^f^i *$qTfa fesr ! i fqfqaiT^rqqt qtfiT: ^?qiqqe.tRtTTRT: II? oil ^flR.qUJRt-ITqR^: 'TTH \ *gcqG^TT: gT?tTTH | ctaf ^qg*^* II? ? II !3WRTg: VTrTTjeq HTHsq ! 1 q fRUH 11?^ II fwa fqaqti*q n^u fqrf^tftqr^q fafatlT qTrPfeqq: l 5RT: qr quiTqrqtf'qq^ feiUrni ! H?VH 10-14. O Brahmin, I tell you further about Marakas. Narrated earlier are three kinds of life spans, viz. short, medium and long. Short life is before 31 years, later on upto 64 it is med um life and from 64 to 100 it is long life. Beyond 100 the longevity is called supreme. O excellent of the Brahmins, it is impossible to decide upon longevity till the native is 20 year old. Till such year the child should be protected by sacred recitations, religious offerings (of ghee etc. to consecrated fire as prescribed 443 Chapter 44 by Vedas etc.) and medical treatments, for premature death may descend on the child due to sins of father or mother or of its own (in the previous birth). «pit nufwsw? i ^ n?v.u sTHirt i i *«TR 3 qf&lt;W#&lt;T II? VI em ^rifaiPTfuq: \ 3rraPtfT&gt; ■ar farerift f^r ! i mrqft qmrjV a) ii^u tsrc3Tfaq^uqf ^ ’fnt ffrcRH^q: i ; n?en *7irqrT qter sfa i tT?T^?TT?rTT fa* I Ttn^C3“rf%H^T^: ll^oll S^rTT ^ anw^tj HTSvft g^REP: I crew tm i y i R gr *1% *t qjtsmfasfcr ir?ii 15-21. I further mention about the Maraka planets. One bom with short life combinations may face death in the Dasa denoted by Vipat star (3rd from birth star); one of medium life may die in the dasa denoted by Pratyak star (5th from birth star). In the dasa denoted by Vadha star (7th from birth star), one with long life may obtain his end. The dasa of the lord of 22nd decanate or the one of 23rd, 3rd, 5th or 7th asterisms may also cause death. The lords of the 2nd and 1 2th counted from the Moon sign may bring death, this is true when the said ruler is a malefic and if he be a benefic there will be (only) diseases (but not death). Death may come to pass in the dasa of the 6th lord and in the sub periods of 6th/8th/12th lords. Should there be many Marakas (endowed with the power of killing) and be strong, there will be diseases, miseries etc. in the respective major and sub periods. Thus these are Marakas (as above) and are primarily related to descend death upon the native. Accor- ding to their dispositions there may be death or difficulties. 444 Brihat Parasara ffora Sastra Notes : The Maraka power of a planet may be correlated to the span of life arrived by other calculations. If both coincide there will be death. If there is a variation, there will not be death but difficulties equal to death like miseries, diseases, poverty etc. qisfa tfq&lt;r: n^n q q fq^q: RR?nqR?iRqfa i qfiR% 5If»T *TgRRq qfaqq: ll^tl ^csisc?fTE&lt;ntr&gt; q%w \ q 5RT WfFqq: tl^vil 22-24. RAHU AND KETU AS MARAKAS : If Rahu or Ketu be in the ascendant, 7th, 8th or 12th thereof, or be in the 7th from a Maraka lord or be with such a planet, they acquire powers of killing in their major or sub periods. For one born in Capricorn or in Scorpio, Rahu will be a Maraka. Should Rahu be in the 6th, 8th or 12th, he will give difficulties in his dasa periods. He will not, however, do so if aspected by or conjunct a benefic. Notes : Important places for Rahu/Kctu to acquire power of killing are the aseendant, 7th. 8th or 12th. The 2nd house is naturally added as another node will be in the 2nd when one is in the specified 8th house. They will not be Marakas if they are in the 3rd, 9th, 5th and Jlth houses. If a node joins a Maraka planet tor is in the house of a Maraka planet) it will act as a Maraka. Rahu is termed as a primary maraka for Capricorn and Scorpio ascendants. If he is in one of the adverse houses for these ascendants his dasa will bring death or intolerable difficulties. g qfaqr Tfw q^ \ qT q$RHIT qfa: 1 q^^qTf«T-3T*[isr*rr»T u^u 445 Chapter 44 cTcift ¥TpT-TTi»qf ?^sfq ST f§«r ! \ e Woe ftrufaert tjfasfcqi stotst s%ste?n?T irvsii Strfp^KT SScTST^ 5 PU 5 TT? ST »jfcTS%?T I q?ffa crowfovzri ^ 9T slfaj^ fa^T H^ssll tfa f sa TfssT ars rt^s &lt;r^fa i a?ffa vqtfnft slfa^ sift ita * ircii « « • 5ST*l rRuf 3^7 fifflS ! I orffa gs®TT ijs^ 113 ©11 q?fcr ^fir: i ?rf%R^T s§tf*msT qffc-mtu 25-31. THIRD HOUSE AND DEATH : O excellent of Brahmins, if the Sun, being with strength, is in the 3rd house from the ascendant, one will obtain his death due to a king (or legal punishments). The Moon in the 3rd will cause death due to tuberculosis while wounds, weapons, fire and thirst will cause death through Mars in the 3rd. If the 3rd be aspected or occupied by Saturn and Rahu, death will be through poison, water or fire, or fall from heights or confinement. Dearth will surely come to descend through insects or leprosy if the Moon and Gulika occupy or aspect the 3rd house. Mercury aspecting or occupying the 3rd will bring death followed by fever. Jupiter in the 3rd or aspecting the 3rd witl cause death by swelling or tumours. Urinary diseases will cause death if Venus is in the 3rd or aspects the 3rd. Many planets aspecting or occupying will bring death through many diseases. Notes : The sage brings in the 3rd house in the context of death. According to the planets related to 3rd house by conjunc- tion or aspect, death will descend on the native through the following causes. The Sun — lfcgal punishments, death-awards etc. (also cardiac problem) The Moon — tuberculosis (lung disorders etc.) Mars — ■ Wounds (accidents etc.), weapons (encoun- ter), fire (also electricity) and thirst. Saturn/Rahu — poison, water, fire, confinement, foils etc. 446 Brihat Parasara flora Sastra Moon and Gulika Mercury Jupiter Venus Mixed planets — insects (scorpion, bees, snakes etc.) or leprosy. — severe fever (typhoid etc.) — swelling, tumour, etc. (also jaundice, dropsy etc.) — urinary disorders (kidney troubles, venereal diseases etc.) (for females leucorrhea). — various reasons KrTtq H 1 32, If the 3rd house is occupied by a benefic, death will be in an auspicious place (like a shrine) and if by a malefic in sinful places. Mixed occupation will yield mixed results in this regard. srr^r * i qfasfqT ! U^U • 33. Consciousness will prevail at,, the time of death if Jupiter or Venus be in the 3rd. With others therein, there will be unconsciousness before death. faretrift ^ qfq ! ii^ vii 34. According to the 3rd house being a movable, fixed or dual sign, death will be in a foreign place (other than native place), in one’s own house or on the way. fMqxi 'pfqq qu: 1 gqs^sffcTfl) Jjwr-S ^ U^XII vnt- qr ^ sjrtst 5* * T&gt;qra wtn qqV i fqqraqr W\\ q&lt;qfq^q&gt; HmUtR ! ii^u 35-36 : OCCUPANTS OF THE 8TH HOUSE : Note the occupant of the 8th house from the ascendant. If it is the Sun, death will be through fire, the Moon water, Mars weapons, Mercury fever, Jupiter diseases, Venus hunger and Saturn thirst. 447 Chapter 44 arestt snfo ■q &gt; ?ftq *|fa*eiqT 5HT 'nq^^f^PIT qfa: ll^\9ll 37. Shou d the 8ih house be occupied or aspcctcd by a benefic while the 9th lord is conjunct a benefic the native will die in a shrine. If malefics take the role of benefics as above, death will be in a place other than a shrine. *TcJJ*T r *nfca: i qfbiIT*T: Siq*qT$q W^W TO re’FTTeTTSTC q: li^ll 38-39. FATE OF THE CORPSE : Should there be a bcnefic’s decanatc in the 8th (i.e. the 22nd decanate being so), the corpse will be burnt in fire (as prescribed in Sastras); if a malefic's decanate be there, the body will be thrown away in water. If the decanate in question is owned by a mixed planet the dead body will only dry up. If it be a serpent decanate, the body will be eaten away by animals, crows etc. wr# - qwjqtsqircq *f*^pra%?ftaq5y i qftsffqqftsrRTtrsq cqrqsmf: st^ftrai: HVoii • 40. SERPENT DECANATES : The 2nd and 3rd Jeca- nates in Cancer, the initial one in Scorpio and the last one in Pisces are designated as serpent decanates. tro&gt;*ra Ararat faqqt f^rnr ! w\\\ qvgt: fqtjqfaTxT k qfjrs^qfq^iN ^HfiTviR q&amp;T gsft: WRW 41-42. PRE-NATAL ABODE : O excellent of Brahmins the stronger of the luminaries occupying a decanate of Jupiter denotes descent from the world of gods. If the said decanate be of Venus or the Moon the descent is from the world of the Manes, if be of the Sun or Mars it is from the world of the dead (of Yama) and if be of Mercury or Saturn it is from the bell. 448 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra OTnfrft qqra*m \ t^lpira^WnT Hq^ilKTTftTfPRT: UY^ll W CT5T TTOTfoq*HT«ni&gt;: l ?r f!T3f rffal l IIYYI1 tmr w&gt;5^if?-?rf^cm^qtmssiTT: 'wh i fRTF^t^Sfa tii-'nifll ! HYX.U 43-45. ASCENT AFTER DEATH : According to the following planets in the 12th, 7th, 6th or the 8th, the native will attain such worlds after death: Juriter — heaven, the Mooo or Venus— the world of Manes, Mars/ Sun— earth (i.e. rebirth), Mercury/Saturn — hell. Should the said houses be not occupied, the native will go to the world as indicated by stronger of the decanate lords related to the 6th and the 8th. The relative planet’s exaltation etc. will denote the high, medium and low status the native will obtain in the said world. fff^T ! 1 tCTmTOrafta tfwfastnfa pra ! nv^u 46. Other planets and Rasis becoming Marakas are being discussed in the chapter related to Dasas. sre jgTTOnHTra: uvstn Chapter 45 Avasthas Of Planets g% ! \ qq ^TTSqpn gfqtqcs! ^f?TllT %ftr qr*qen^l II ? M 1. o sage, you have earlier stated that the Avasthas (states) of planets be considered in the context of planetary effects. Be kind to tell me about the same. Chapter 45 449 «rT?cT^riif fejTsffrrTiT I i *n?cng ^nrrarccn arerwr^ m^ii 2. O excellent of Brahmins, various kinds of planetary Avasthas have been expounded. Out of these, I tell you the summary of infant and other states (in the first instance). 3T?r: g^r *j?t: t ^37: f^rafiTRf ll^tl 3. INFANT STATE ETC : Infant, youthful, adolescent, old and dead are the states of planets placed in the ascending order at the rate of six degrees in odd signs. This arrangement is reverse in the case of even signs. Notes : These 5 Avasthas are known as Baaladi Avasthas. For odd signs, the placement concerned will denote the Avastha as under : Infant state (Baalavastha) — 0 to 6° Youthful state (Kumaravastha) — 6 to 12° Adolescent state (Yuvavastha) — 12 to 18° Advanced state (Vridhdhavastha) —18 to 24" In extremis (Mritavastha) — 24 to 30° The above order is to be rdversed for placement in an even sign. qrcfarT ^ | gfa it fl^snrimi 4. RESULTS : One fourth, half, full, negligible and nil are the grades of results due to a planet in infant, youthful, adolescent, old and dead states. *nrgj|?¥rti&gt;: snjw'tairb \ 5. AWAKENING, DREAMING AND SLEEPING STATES : If a planet is in its own sign or in exaltation it is said to be in a state of awakening (or alertness). In the sign of a friend or of a neutral it is in dreaming state while in enemy’s sign or in debilitation it is in a state of sleeping. 450 Brilmt Parasara Hora Sastra ffTHT ff«U I g Riff ^JF*j faffR fgWWH ! ll^H rt. According to a planet being in Awakening, Dreaming . or Sleeping states, the results due to it will be full, medium or nil, *&gt;?t: srgfer: *TTOt tfoVr : » ffff: ritsRVffiRFn RffaisRTr: nun 7. OTHER KINDS OF STATES : There are nine kinds of other states, viz. Deepta, Swastha, Prarm-dita, Santa, Deena, Vikala, Khala, and Kopa. ‘ff: SffFftsfafaff $ | gftfft ffTff: ffff* 5ft*l 11*11 flff$ Jtffffl: jfaff* fa*ff: Rtqfffaff: I ffff: 3ffi$ ff&gt;: WTWWJeftHeu ff ffTOT^ q: mzt ff^ff I JTRff ffFI ’flTRFt Riffg|l’ 5 U?°H 8-10. If a planet is in its exaltation sign, it is in Dcepta- vastha, in own sign Swastha, in thick friend’s sign Pramudita, in friendly sign Santa, in neutral’s sign Deena, in the company of a malefic Vikala, in an enemy’s sign Khala, and in being eclipsed by the Sun— Kopa. Depending on such a state of the planet, the house occupied by it will obtain corresponding effects. g^ntjFTff: i 3^1% tit 311 ffisfq faRfftrsfa ffffcjff: t JTfaff: fftsfq Tlfafft ftfaff* ! tl^tl » ff ff faffs: fffaflfft WW ffRT ll?vti Chapter 45 451 STT: ^TS^HtforT: I o ST^T ?T T7J?% tffatT: *T 3?T|pT: fH^TT^V faspjTdt fa^"T * \ gw ?r?g gfer: s snOfatr: u^n Tf^TT 3TT* 'TT'TT qwf^T I sftfaej &lt;r f^Fftzirssi^T nfk nton «7fi?rT: eftfacft mfa 'f^tTPIMftrcnR: II fell 11-18. YET OTHER AVASTHAS ;. Lajjita, Garvita, Kshudita, Trushita, Mudita and'Kshobhita are the other kinds of (six) states due to the planets. Placed in the 5th house if a planet is associated with a node or with the Sun, Saturn or Mars, it is in Lajjitavastba. If a planet is in exaltation or in Moolatrikona, it is Gamtavastba. The avastha is Kshudita if the planet is in an enemy’s sign, or conjunct an enemy or aspected by an enemy or even be in conjunction with Saturn. If a planet is in a watery sign and be in aspect to a malefic but not a bcnefic, the avastha is called Trushita. If a planet is in a friendly sign, or conjunct or aspected by a benefic or is conjunct Jupiter, it is said to be in Muditavastha. If a planet is conjunct the Sun and is aspected by or conjunct a malefic or is aspected by an enemy, it is said to be in Kshobhitavashta. The houses occupied by a planet in Kshuditavastha or Kshobhitavastha are destroyed. ^4cT5q: n;£l&lt; &lt;T9T STfa: M^o(| srfaeT: ^rfq tr n^?u 5cT5F«IT^ Hfs^rfr ^ liq 9 1 gercrcft aqn ii^u 452 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra tnpcr hi \ f WT% HTO HTCt H TOTHTg%3fRT*T ! IR^II 19-23 The learned should estimate the effects due to a house in the manner cited above (i.e. with the help of various kinds of avasthas), after ascertaining the strength and weakness (of the various planets). Weak planets cause reduction in good effecs while stronger ones give greater effects. If a planet posited in the 10th house is in Lajjitavastba, Kshudhitavastha or Kshobhitavastha, the person w 11 always be subjected to miseries. If a planet in the 5th house is in Lajjitavastha, there will be destruction of progeny, or there will be only or e surviving child. Surely the wife of the native will die if there is a planet in the 7th in Kshp&amp;titavastha or in Trushitavastha. T*?* VHTOJtH fararfa TOTH I ’OTTTOTH &lt;TO OfacTFJ tRttll fTOHTOHTOTHfHHtHTO hV?TO \ rs k\ « &gt; WSTHTOfTOTHt HfTOItTRHTHt ffefTOTfHVTTT: lRV.lt HfTOHHTTOHTlfH faTOTTHHftT I 5?nTTOTTO HTO T&gt;f5TV e TTfH^fH H |R^|| 'TO JHffT H t fqrvjTTOfCTHTllf IR\9|| TfHTfq fr^ft^THqniT fTTFlT- HftTOTOrf*TTta&gt; fTOTTOT IRqlt n sfwnft qcaqrmffuqnT: t ■fHHHfTqfTHRTTO^TfH: ^HfrFiqfTOtqy hto iRtti Chapter 45 453 24-29. EFFECTS OF GAR VITA VASTHA ETC . : A planet in Garvitavastlia will cause happiness through new houses and gardens, regalhood, skill in arts, financial gains at all times, and improvement in business. A planet in Muditavastha will give residences, clothes, ornaments, happiness from lands and wife, happiness from relatives, living in royal palaces, destruction of enemies and acquisition of wisdom and learning. A planet in Lajjitavastha will give aversion to God, loss of intelligence, loss of child, interest in evil speeches and listlessness in good things. A planet in Kshobhitavastha will give acute penury, evil disposition, miseries, financial debacles, distress to feet and obstruction to income due to royal wrath. A planet in Kshudhita- vastha will cause downfal due to grief and passion, grief on account of relatives, physical decline, troubles from’enemies financial distress, loss of physical strength and an eclipsed mind due to miseries. A planet in Trushitavastha will cause diseases through association with females, leading over wicked (or evil) deeds, loss of wealth due to one’s own men, physical weakness miseries caused by evil people and decline of honour. iwtfwt tputi^n wm ^ ^ 4^* i fan ^ 4f^ifa fraifas; n^u IT I faq&gt;3faH U^II cTTT ^ET; 1 Tfaf^ 'fffa Vrof 4&gt;m fatftsfacT n •usrfaqi^sTRfajT g?r: i TfafafeltT: II^VH ?PTT 1 ^ tffa faiftifa&lt;T n^icii 5^ stot: sfatrmr *n»fa i 4RV *Wi&gt; Wrs^gsstm U^II 454 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra vrcrtv: m ^*Tcn i BrfeZ^GST fWCT ^ q&gt;q*n*0*5*T II^WI 30-37. CALCULATION OF SAYAN A AND OTHER AVASTHAS : I now tell you of the avasthas viz. Sayana, XJpavesana, Netrapani, Prakasana, Gamana, Aagamana, Sabha, Agama, Bhojana, Nrityalipsa, Kautuka and Nidra, and the Chesthas of such avasthas. Note the number of the stars (from Aswini) occupied by the planet for which Avastha is to be calculated. Multiply that number by the number denoted by the planet (Sun l, Moon 2 etc.). The figure so arrived at be again multiplied by the number of Navamsa the planet is in. Add to this the number of birth asterism, the number of ghatis of birth and the number of signs the ascendant gained from Aries. This figure be divided by 12 and the remainder will indicate the corresponding Avastha of the planet. The sub state in the said Avastha can be found out thus : Multi ply the figure denoted by the Avastha concerned (i c. Sayana 1, Upavesana 2 etc) by the same figure and increase it by tbe figure denoted by the Anka value for the first syllable of the native’s personal name. Divide the product so obtained by 12. . The remainder there of be further increased by constant planetary additamehts, thus \ Sun 5, Moon 2, Mars 2, Mercury 3, Jupiter 5, Venus 3, Saturn 3, Rahu 4 (and Ketu 4). (Here the planet means the one for whom the sub state is being known.) The product so arrived at be divided by 3. In th process if the remainder is I, it is Drishti; if 2 Cheshta and if (, Vicheshta. Notes : So far narrated arc three different groups of Avasthas. The present Avasthas are called Sayanadi Avasthas. These are of supreme importance as compared to the other kinds of Avasthas. • The following formula may be adopted to know about the planet’s Avastha (Sayanadi) at birth. (sxpxn) + (a+g +r) = Avastha 12 Where as ‘s’ denotes the serial number of. the star occupied by the planet, counted from Aswini at birth; ‘p’ denotes the Chapter 45 455 status of the planet counted from the Sun (i.e. Sun 1, Mercury 4 etc; ‘n’ denotes the planet’s Navamsa position (i.e. I to 9 Navamsas'l; ‘a’ denotes Janma Nakshatra (or ruling star, i.e. the one occupied by the Moon); ‘g’ denotes the ghati in which birth took place (i.e. 20gh 2 vigh is 21gh) and *r’ denotes the ascendant's order counted from Aries (i.e. Cancer 4, Leo 5, so on and. so forth). In place of ‘n’ given above, some translators interpret the word ‘Amsa’ as degree occupied by the planet which is obviously not correct. In this connection, the reader’s attention is drawn to Balabhadra’s Hora Ratna, ch 3 wherein the author Balabhadra himself gives an example for the Sun being in the 7th Navamsa of Leo and thus he considered only 7 as multiplier. He has not taken in to account the Sun’s degree. He quotes Adhbhuta Sagara as his authority for calculation of Sayanadi Avasthas. It will thus be clear that \Amsa’ is Navamsa and not degree in this context. . Also please note that Aagamanavastha (the 6th one) is known as Gamanechchavastha by some exponents. Take a case now as an example with the following data. The Sun in Krittika Nakshatra, 3rd Navamsa of Taurus (i.e in T 12* Taurus), birth star Krittika, birth at 30gh 33vigh, and ascendant in Scorpio. With these we produce following information, keeping the formula given above. s = 3 a = 3 p = 1 g = 31 n — 3 r = 8 Hence to find out the Avastha, (3x1x3) + (3 + 31 + 8) _5I 12 12 =remainder 3 With the help of remainder 3, we count three Avastnas from Sayana. This indicates Netrapani Avastha for the Sun. Similarly for 9 planets, such Avasthas be found out. In a given horoscope, the factors V, ‘g’ and V will be identical for all the 9 planets while factors ‘s’, ‘p’ and ‘n‘ will be variable. After knowing the Avasthas of various planets, we have to find out the sub state of each Avastha. The formula for knowing sub-state is made in two stages, as under. 456 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra StaS c , ; &lt;AXA) + R Stage 2 : (R-fpa) 3 — sub state Where ‘A’ is Avastha, ‘fs’ is first syllable’s value with reference to the native’s personal name, R is remainder in stage 1, and ‘pa’ is planetary additament denoted in the above slokas, such as Sun 5, Venus 3 etc. The remainder at stage 2 will denote sub state such as 1 is Drishti, 2 cheshta and 0 vicheshta. We need information about Anka value or value for first syllable of the name of a person. These arc : 1 for *r, 'S, y, £T and ^ 2 for 3T, sf, and ?T 3 for *T, It, &lt;T, "T, and *T 4 for tj, q, J, «r, % x and *T 5 for sfl, % 5, T, it and ^ Now with the above data, find the sub state for the Sun id Netrapani Avastha as per the example given supra. First syllable of the name is "Sa” (?r). Hence, Stage 1 . ~~ yy~ — Remainder 1 Stage 2 : = 0 Remainder zero indicates sub state as Vicheshta, in Netra- pani Avastha. Uvi fq|: winsfTBt g srqrssnTq i WWbT q*T qq: n n „ 38-39. EFFECTS OF CHESHTA ETC. : If the sub state is Dnshh m an Avastha, the results being stated for the Avastha will be medium, full in Cheshta and negligible in Vicheshta. The good and bad effects of planets be deciphered based on the 457 Chapter 45 strength and weakness of the planets. In exaltation, the planets reveal effects in a pronounded manner due to (good) avasthas. Notes : If a planet is in good Avastha and is in Cheshta (sub state), the good effects will be full. If the sub state is Vicheshta, the good effects are neutralised. If the sub state is Drishti, good effects will be feebly felt. A planet in exaltation will give the good effects due to a particular Avastha in a fuller measure. If a planet is in bad Avastha with Cheshta as sub state, the evil effects will be less. With Drishti, evil effects will be visibly felt. If Vicheshta is sub state, bad effects are neutralized. In debilitation, the evil effects due to an Avastha will be pronounced. Each planet gives different effects — good or bad— according to the Avastha. No constant evaluation be made just with the name of an Avastha. This is what is conveyed in the following slokas. qjf-IT HTTHT \ zm 5 ^ qqftqqTg: qqq sunn:n*cii *fT2eTrffKfa$IT*ITvft faqrqfesTfqTrft HT. I^lrT l ^5&gt;TfaTcl: SR qcjfqq: ^TI q$q%?iq?q: U*?tl 5TT: fqtqft 'TT&gt;T?PR&gt; I 3?TTfqvT: qfTgqfqrt: qqR qq?TT \ q^rsq* qfqfq qr^qftq ntf^u qqT§T: fqqqTf^qrfaqiq qq?I q^tq: uwu qr^ITTcft qqqiTf^cf) q£ sqqq^ qqqifq^fq: I qfqq&gt; fqqqTfaqcft qgq: fqfq: fqq: UViUl qqjq^ qr; qdqqnTeRqT: qqrqTrq^feiV fqqwT gqisrc i q5?tITTqqiqTTqqTf?qq&gt; q^Rqt fqfqqfqqq&lt;qq: $qTqRraT: qt: 458 Brlhat Parasara Mora SastrA Wtfacft *T*T I a[4wfT%!t qqtajcTSqTq^ - f^H4d1 cRT ?RT U'tf'aU ^ 4 1 apwwt ^^r^rcr: q| q| qqr qqr f^ \ 3ra?q&lt;TT fsR&gt;qqT cT*TT qqT^q&gt;3R c TqiqtfpRqufa: jmqmfqqt *T% UYqU fafSTvft^: *RT qf^rT: qfecT: iPFqfqgTqqaqvTiqTforr: I Tt^q&gt; ekitt^ qrfqq^fiq^ luen STHqTJf q^af smsftrcrcqftqq: \ q^aTSTl^n? fqFFT: ^Toq^israiq't gqj qtlgfc || J( o |&lt; fqTPRTITqqfjm q^rTT fqSTR^ ? fl qqqsrg^ \ Tq&gt; fqtVT qqfrpq ".?q qnfqaTqqNi: MH$|| 40-51. EFFECTS OF THE SUN'S AVASTHAS AT BIRTH : If the Sun is in Sayanavastha, the native will incur digestive deficiency, many diseases, stoutness of legs, bilious vitiation, ulcer in the anus, and heart strokes. If the Sun is in Upavesanavastha, the native will suffer poverty, will carry loads, will indulge in litigations, be hard-hearted, wicked, and will lose in his undertakings. If the Sun is in Netrapani avastha, the native will always be happy, wise, helpful to others, endowed with prowess and wealth, very happy, and will gain royal favours. If the Sun is in Prakasanavastha, the native will be liberal in disposition, will have plenty of wealth, be a significant speaker in the assembly, will perform many meritorious acts, be greatly stroDg and be endowed with charming beauty. If the Sun is in Gamanavastha the native will be disposed to live in foreign places, be miserable, indolent, bereft of intelligence and wealth, be distressed due to fear and be short-tempered. If the Sun is in Agamanavastha, the native will be interested in others’ wives, be devoid of his own men, be interested in movements, skilful in doing evil deeds, be dirty, ill disposed and be tale- bearer. If the Sun is in Sabbavastba, the native will be disposed to help others, be always endowed with wealth and gems, be virtuous, endowed with lands, new houses and robes, be very Chapter 45 459 strong, very affectionate to his friends and be very kindly disposed. If the Sun is in Aagamavastha, the native will be distressed due to enemies, fickle-minded, evil-minded, emaciated, devoid of virtuous acts' and intoxicated with pride. If the Sun is in Bhojanavastha, the native will experience pains in joints, will lose money on account of others' females, will have strength declining off and on, be untruthful, will incur head aches, will eat remnant food and will take to bad ways. If the Sun is in Nrityalipsavastha, the native will be honoured by the learned, be himself a scholar, will have knowledge of poetry etc., and be adored by kings on the earth. If the Sun is in Kautukavastha, the native will always be happy, be endowed with spiritual knowledge, will perform sacrificial riles, will move amidst kings, wilt have fear from enemies, be charming-faced and be endowed with knowledge of poetry. If the Sun is in Nidravastha, the native will possess eyes laden with sleepiness (i.e. be always drowsy), will live in foreign (or distant) places, will incur harm to wife and will faee financial destruction. Notes : Balabhadra gives some additional information in regard to planetary Avaslhas based on ‘Adbhuta Sagaram’. The same is correspondingly added for the benefit of the reader, along with my comments, avoiding repetition of the views of Parasara. The Sun in Upavesanavastha will make one an artisan, black in complexion, devoid of learning, miserable and serve others In Netrapani Avastha— all kinds of happiness, if the Sun is in the 5th, 9th and 10th or 7th house. In other houses, this Avastha of the Sun will give eye diseases and enmity with all. If in Prakasanavastha, the native will be meritorious, religious, liberal, will enjoy pleasures, be equal to a prince and enjoy the status of Kubera, the Hindu god of wealth. However, the said Prakasanavastha of the Sun placed in the 7th or the 5th house will cause loss of the first child and will produce many litiga- tions. If the Sun is in Ga.nanavastha, the native will incur disease of the feet and be very mean. If in Agamanavastha, the Sun in 12th or in 7th will destroy progeny and will give very limited wealth. If in Aagamavastha, the Sun will give many miseries, ugly appearance, and foolishness. However, he will give wealth. The Sun in Bhojanavastha in the 9th house will 460 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra cause many hindrances to spiritual and religious undertakings. In other houses, this position will cause head and ear diseases] apart from joint pains. Though Parasara states that the native with the Sun in Kautukavastha will have fear from enemies Balabhadra exempts such evil effect for the 6th house position! The Sun in Kautukavastha in other houses will give a number of daughters, two wives, itch, excellence, liberality etc. If the Sun is in Nidravastha, the native will be predisposed to incur piles and elephantasis, be absolutely very peaceless and will be liable to lose his first child. fsrafqqmqr: listen dmfTcft *TgST: qP5&gt;Tt | &lt;TTf^R&gt; «qi*t UX3II tarauft ^qrqrq qft i 3R?q3Tvqq?&gt; ara: fq^Tf^er: usmi qqj ncTqfcT ^ fqqrm: i qf^m fqqrqT qtqrf^: gtqqgfqrf rftqqrRq UXXII fa&amp;TC qTqqcft fqmqR fo?he|: *i) TT%&lt;fT I ?RTf«^q: qf&gt;q'hrcmR&gt; SR«sq«" qq* WTT§T:' ns^ | *th&gt; qr*r&gt;q&gt; ;r&gt; ( »jviqw-trt&gt; *Nt qftmtqfqqfstrT: uxv»|| ifaMTdtf HqrrfR: Wf%frcqnf*RfrTT*T I ^TTrTgrq *rot% qTqffrfoftfafaqft 5«T5I: IIXcll fqaRTqq^r *Tcqf qiRTvft I fT€&lt;iR^ %*nq: |i)(fc|| Chapter 45 461 3UrRtfrT gfanTHBT^ ?T STR*T U^oh 5jeqfaqrR^ g^RK^R: | nWt f$ gm*&gt; mgcni^n ncwfcT ^ srgfa gqrg gr sm?gtT \ *nrr 5*ra?g gTRnrcfeTRiwigiT n^u *THgnt gr^TraT ^gir i ^%s^Tmf5 :: g?Tfgfmm: f?igT^ tffa fgfggtj^4: u^n 52-63. EFFECTS OF THE MOON'S AVASTH AS AT BIRTH : If the Moon is in Sayanavastba, the native will be honourable, sluggish, given to sexual lust, and will face financial destruction. If the Moon is in Upavesanavastha, the native will be troubled by diseases, be dull-witted, be not endowed with mentionable wealth (i.e. will have only negligible wealth), be hard-hearted, will do unworthy acts and will steal others' wealth. If the Moon is in Netrapani avastba, the native will be troubled by great diseases (long lasting in nature), be very garru- lous, wicked and will indulge in bad deeds. Should the Moon be in Prakasavastba, the native will be famous in the world, will have his virtues exposed through royal patronage, be surrounded by horses, elephants, females and ornaments and will visit shrines. If the Moon is in Gamaiiavastha, with decreasing rays, the native will be sinful, cruel and always troubled by afflictions of sight; if with increasing rays, the native will be distressed due to fear. If the Moon is in Agamanavastba, the native will be honourable, will suffer diseases of feet, will secretly indulge in sinful acts, be poor and devoid of intelligence and happiness. If the Moon is in Sabbavastha, the native will be eminent among men, honoured by kings, and kings of kings, be very beautiful, wills ubdue the passion of women, be skilful in sexual acts and be virtuous. If the Moon is in Agamavastba, the native will be garrulous, and virtuous and if the said Moon is of dark fortnight the native will have two wives, be sick, highly wicked and be violent. If the Moon is in Bhojanavastha, the native will be endowed with honour, conveyances, attendants, social status, 462 Brihat Parusara Hora Sastra wife and daughters, provided she is Full (tpjf qvjj; if she is in dark fortnight these auspicious effects will fail to come. If the Moon is in Nrityalipsavastha and be endowed with (fortnightly) strength, the native will be strong, will have knowledge of songs and be a critic of beauty of things; if the said Moon is of dark fortnignt, the person will be sinful If the Moon is in Kautuka- vastha, the native will attain kingship, lordship over wealth and skill in sexual acts and in sporting with harlots. Should increa- sing Moon conjunct Jupiter be in Nidravastha, the native will be quite eminent. Devoid of Jupiter’s conjunction, if the Moon is in the said A vastha, the native will lose his wealth on account of females, and female jackaJs will be crying around his abode (as though if were a cemetery). Notes : With the Moon in the ascendant in Sayanavaslha, the native will incur diseases of rectum, be poor and highly irritable. In other houses, this condition will not give these defects so specifically. If weak Moon be in this Avastha (in any house), the right side of the native’s body will incur damages caused by fire. There will be damage to teeth if the Moon is in Dpavcsanavastha. The Moon in Netrapani Avastha will bring eye diseases, elephantasis, etc. and will mtfke the native garrulous. If the Moon is in Gamanavastha, it will cause diseases of the head and brain. There will be two wives and many daughters if the Moon is in Agamavastha. Bhojanavastha of the Moon will bring fear from snakes and water. The Moon in Nrityalipsavastha will give a very lean body and lasting sickness. Kautukavastha of the Moon will confer many sons. If the Moon is in Nidravastha in the 10th, the native will undergo miseries on account of his progeny. The Moon in the 5th or the 7th with the same Avastha will bring all kinds of auspicious effects. Should she join Rahu in the 5th or 7th, herself being in Nidravastha, everything of the native is destroyed and he will be laden with a thousand blemishes. srgtrr uv*n 463 Chapter 45 *WT ftfagrft ^ITfag'TTiRT: 1 SforTT ?T?T ?TiR*lcTT \\%%\\ SFf&gt;m tRTsftsm??: fRUTR^fis: I 4 O C 9^ 9,# gswFcnf^ft^ft *r&lt;h&gt; =tt fw?r: n^vaii *T*ft n*R g^sgfM goi^mift ^facTT^g: I «gtg*v«3W agarr srgaTcRft ^g^Tta^r: n^cn aipnft afaamkT iRmwouft i &lt;rrH^m ftg?p?n aftaaanfcnq^R^&gt; tfft ii^u I'W S^^warcsJrofr farti: wrVr afag^ aaigaa^ fa^Tfaffia: gaTa \ sh^a^aiaa- sa*aTTasaiaat ag aal *nft a sna'V sr: iivsoii mft aafa afa*r ^at aafra^fgat aaig^: &lt; Ta^aga^aftaat^a snarafa: fa^at uva^u faesahft a aa% aa^ f% i ataaaaRt ^rar agat aiaafaa; u\s^u afafaRan^ ag^ ^ff*Pnfaf73TRTftRT*nfcT gglft: i yaa&lt;a r ^ m a : aaT afrsaT araarar a^Fif a%iaaaT \vs^\\ ai^taafa ^g% j% aa: i ^aaa aafa^tgaPisa: qfaeft aaataareR: iivsvn fasTa^at *ft aft astft ataaafaa: i aaf aaafrai^ agtft aaatfaa: uvskm 64-75. EFFECTS OF AVASTHAS OF MARS AT BIRTH : If Mais is in Sayanavastha, the native will be troubled by wounds, itch and ulcer. If Mars. b'. c Upavcsanavastba, the native will be strong, sinful, untruthful, eminent, wealthy and bereft of virtues. If Mars be in the ascendant and be in Netra- pani Avastba there will be penury; in other houses this state will confer rulershipof a city. Should Mars be in Prakasavastha, the native will shine with virtues and will be honoured by the 464 Brihai Parasara Hora Sastra king. Mars in Prakasavastha in the 5th house wifi, however, cause loss of children and of wife. If Mars is in the said state and be with Rahu, a severe (positional) fall will descend on the native. Should Mars be in Gamanavastha the native will be always roaming, will have fear of multiple ulcers, will ineur misunder- standings with females, will be afflicted by boils, itches etc. and will incur financial decline. If Mars be in Agamanavastha, the native will be virtuous, endowed with precious gems, will adore a sharp sword, will walk with the (majestic) gait of an elephant (imparting surprise in the onlooker), will destroy his enemies and will remove the miseries of his people. If Mars be in Sabhava- stba and be in exaltation the native will be skilful in conducting wars, will hold the flag of righteousness aloft and be wealthy; if Mars be in the said state in the 5th or 9 th, the native will be bereft of learning, if in the 12th childlessness and no wife and no friends will result, and if Mars be in other houses than these in the said Avastha, the native will be a scholar in a king’s court (i.e. be a poet laureate), be very wealthy, honourable and chari- table. If Mars be in Agamavastha, the native will be devoid of virtues and good deeds, will be distressed by diseases, will acquire diseases of the root of the ears tK: &amp; C TRTTtT etc.), and severe gout pains, be timid and will befriend evil lot. If Mars be with strength while in Bhojanavastha, the native will eat sweet-food and if be devoid of strength, the native will indulge in base acts and be dishonourable. If Mars be Nrityalips- avastha, the native will earn wealth through king and will be endowed with fullness of gold, diamonds and corals in his house. If Mars be in Kautukavastha the native will be curious in disposi- tion and be endowed with friends and sons, if Mars be simul- taneously exalted, the native will be honoured by the king and the virtuous and be himself virtuous. If Mars be in Nidravastha, the native will be short-tempered, devoid of intelligence and wealth, be wicked, fallen from virtuous path and troubled by diseases. Notes : If Mars is in Sayanavastha at birth, the native will be libidinous, learned, intelligent and irritable. Should this Avastha in particular occur in the 5th or in the 7th, the native will lose his first wife and first child as well. If Mars in 5th being in Sayanavastha is related to Saturn or Rahu, the native’s Chapter 45 465 head will be severed while with other malefics related to Mars in the said state ears/hand will be cut off. Should Mars be in Upavesanavastha in the ascendant, the native will be extremely sinful, will incur several diseases, indi- gent and most unpeaceful. If the said Avastha occurs for Mars in the 9th house, the native will lose whole of his wealth apart from his wife and progeny. Mars in Netrapani Avastha in the ascendant will give poverty and will destroy the native's wife and progeny; in other houses this confers on the native all kinds of wealth and happiness from wife and children. However, the 2nd house position or the 7th house position of Mars in Netrapani Avastha will cause fear from lions and snakes apart from giving earniDgs from lands. Further the native's wife will predecease him. Should Mars bein Prakasanavastha in the 5th or in the 7th house, the native will lose his wife and all children. Placed in the 5th houie in Prakasanavastha if Mars is conjunct Saturn, the native will kill co' vs. Should Mars be in Gamanavastha, the native will be active in his assignments, will incur diseases of the joints, burning pains in eyes, dental afflictions and the like, will have fear from dogs and will adore the guise of a female. These effects are for the placement of Mars in the ascendant. In other houses, Mars in Gamanavastha will bring royal favours, leader- ship and luxuries of the life. Shifting over to sloka 69 of our text, in the context of Mars being in Agamanavastha, the sage uses "rpjqpaT" which has been, however, interpreted as ‘elephant killer’ by some commentators. It is actually an indeclinable particle and conveys the meaning that the native will walk with the majestic gait of an elephant (imparting surprise in the onlookers Mars in Agamanavastha will cause piles and diseases of rectum. If Mars is in Bhojanavastha or in Sayanavastha in the 5th house, or in the 8th house, there will be untimely death for the native. In other houses, Bhojanavsatha of Mars will confer wealth. Should Mars , be in Nrityalipsavastha and be in the ascendant, 2nd, 7th or 10th, the native will receive all kinds of happiness; there will be miseries galore if Mars is in the 8th or 9th a part from incurring untimely death. In other houses, this state of Mars will make the native akin to Kubera. Mars in the 466 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 7th or in the 9th in Kautukavastha will give several diseases and death of first child and wife. In other houses, this state will confer scholarship, various kinds of wealth, two wives and more female children. In Nidravastha, Mars in the ascendant, 2nd, 3rd, 9th, 10th or 11th, will give scholarship, foolishness and poverty. The 5th house or 7th house placement of Mars in this Avastha will give many miseries and many male children. Should Rahu join Mars in Nidravastha in any house the pative will have many wives, be miserable, and will suffer from some diseases on the surface of feet. BTeff tTfST: g£ ll\3$ll wtaWt g«iTTfoi&lt;jq: \ trgcq: iivs\3U ga &lt; K vH gtaff 'PJTTT- snn wtpt: n^cii sim swig*. srg gtrcf^Tctf fwT*r% trgcg: \ »qpn \ ■ * ftrfawi tw ftrf^ g** 3rg;*m* fa?mg neon qrfti ittffe «ww ig^tr URtfgfe: I g n qfi wnm T *r gron tifam *it gfawfw lie? II srgfti gjf^rct n*r *rcf?r i g*g«T?n arrfH^T ’trafa *n*rcrftwT iic^u ■gr^T 3TfTf?n% trrr 5TffHHl*T'4^Tf?T: tm i •ronton n 'snm n 'rongror ue^n Chapter 45 467 ijraftrarraft *rg?r: j fa^g^TSIBN; ^nTT'TfasrT: *Tl&lt;ra STTSHTTTcft llcVM ^3^ ^nr*in^ ^cTfirarsfwgr 'r^t i ^3% 5R^em Tfa: 'T'RIW g*Efg*m *T%: llcstn fajifa^ ?r ?m ^rftratnfenihT: i S{fc«IW*I5WTRWNt &lt;%»R SiSft Hq^ll 76-86. : EFFECTS OF MERCURY'S A VASTHAS AT BIRTH : Should Mercury in Sayanavasfba be in the ascendant, the native will be lame and will have reddish eyes (like the black bee); if Mercury be in the said Avastha in other houses, the native will be addicted to licentious pleasures and be wicked. If Mercury be in Upavesanavastha in the ascendant, the native will possess (the seven principle) virtues; if aspectcd by or con- junct malefics, penury will result and if by benefics financial happiness will follow. If Mercury be in Netrapanl Avastha, the native will be devoid of learning, wisdom, wellwishers and satis- faction but be honourable; if Mercury be in the 5th house in the said Avastha, the subject will be bereft of happiness from wife and sons, be endowed with (more) female children and will gain abundant finance through royal patronage. If Mercury be in Prakasavastha, the native will be charitable, merciful, meri- torious, will cross the boundaries of ocean in respect of many branches of learning, be endowed with great faculty of discri- mination and will destroy evil people. If Mercury be in Gamanavastha the native will visit the court of kings on many occasions and Goddess Laksbmi (denoting wealth) will dwell in his abode. If Mercury be in Agamanavastha, the same effects due to his being in Gamanavastha will fructify. If Mercury be in Sabhavastba. and be in exaltation, the native will be affluent and meritorious at all times, be equal to Kubera (the lord of wealth in Hindu mythology) or be a king or a minister, be devoted to Lord Vishnu and Lord Suva, be virtuous and will attain final emancipation. Should Mercury be in Agamavastha, the native will serve base men and gain wealth thereby and will have two sons and one fame-bringing daughter. If Mercury be in Bhojanavastha, the native will face financial losses through litiga- tions, will physically lose on account of fear from king (i e. will Brihat Parasara llora Sastra 468 become thin due to royal wrath), fickle-minded and will be bereft of physical and conjugal felicity. If Mercury be in Nrity ali psa ynstba, the native will be endowod with honour, cen- veyances, corals (i.e. gems etc ), sons, friends, prowess and recognition in assembly due to his scholarships if with the said state Marcury be in a malefic’s sign the native will be addicted to prostitutes and will long for licentious pleasures. If Mercury be in Kautukavastha, and be in the ascendant, the native will be skilful in music; if be in the 7th/8th with the said Avastha one will be addicted to courtezans and if in the 9th, the native will be meritorious and attain heavens after death. If Mercury be in Nidravastba, the native will not enjoy comfortable sleep, be afflicted by neck or neck joint (Hmfk) diseases, be devoid of coborn, afflicted by miseries galore, will enter into litigations with his own men will lose wealth and honour. Notes : If Mercury is in the ascendant in Sayanavastha, the native will be a eunuch lacking productivity and will be devoid of a limb (whereas Parasara is specificly stating that the native will be lame), In other houses, this Avastha of Mercury will produce abstract penury. Should Mercury be in his own sign in Upavesanavastha, the native will be endowed with all kinds of happiness, be meritorious and liberal but will incur diseases of the sight. If Mercury is in Prakasavastha, the native will be interested in Vedic lore and will continue to be rich although he may be very charitable to give away anything. Gamanavastha of Mercury, will cause fear from snakes and water. Aagamanavastha of Mercury will bring many kinds of miseries and a wicked wife. Mercury in the 5th or in the 12th in Sabha- vasha will give many female issues; in the 7th it will make the native black hi complexion. Mercury in Agamavastha will cause urinary disorders. Bhojanavastha of Mercury gives poverty and many diseases at the time of one’s end. If Mercury is in Nrityali- psavastha, the native will have five sods, 4 daughters and 2 wives. Mercury in Kautukavastha will cause piles and skin diseases. Mercury in Nidravastha will curtail longevity if the position is in ascendant or in the 10th house, whereas in other houses, this Avastha of Mercury will give abundant wealth. Chapter 45 w g Sfgsrqfc ^TT^: \ wfanh?Tg:«RS*tf?3: wErcwfWfa^ft iqr. i\*m ^ q%yf *TcT^% qfi( I %n&lt;nf®i strnsif^Pn i nteHfqfra: *rg*: H*n gnrnmR^ fa*ra«raw&gt;*^ w«g« « 5 T ct«C:g^3f qsiqfafq^q «(dwg i s&lt;sm ^gq*Rft ^m^5- ij^cw Ht^nt tnqfmmcq cT^^rm it ton *TT«wt nqfaqFW H4T fqqqn^jfaft 5 ?T I qfr^Y firfiraf^Rf^ Sqfcraf? gtf n*r *i* ue * n snnn% jHcTr qpsnqT q?q srgsnri ^fr^n^n i g^wfa tsgtf qfoKqfTOT nt^u HTgwqqqni 5TWgq5ffwr3 , q: nqfq q»it fq^qTf^qq*rR: i irsTgmrqnS'Tt ^Tot«T»j^ srjfa 'fqfqafqsMfasft qiqq: uw qnnq i^Mmws^hiW goqrq% g cmMrUy ?Tqrqgrwg^ fasar&gt;*i«&lt;UT \ w&gt;Aq^ ^MH g n qq^ ^Tstfq 5 m qfa: yt aiH^f a: htt %rnfa: e** wvtu iq*f?T Iq^rgrt ^ tjWl^g \ nq Tqpni trar qiPwrc^v^w *if' , «fl | * IIWU q?qfa*«nT^ TMHpft H*ft tomftWW ***T I y qf q ? T t ggiffiflff: qfacT: ^rsqfqWFra^ft fjj Hlft ®Ri M€.^n *ra$\g% qsnsrct 3Rt ?RT ar 'fnwr: yqiqtm^: qsft » 470 Brihai Parasara flora Sastta g?ft QTrTu^5¥R*Tqfir5rr: n^n 5^ faring ^ nfaiifi T i TfTScTTTfT^T*?! *1^ H£qjj 87-98. EFFECTS OF JUPITER'S A VAST!/ AS AT BIRTH : If Jupiter is in Sayanavastha, the native will be strong but will speak in whispers, be very tawny in complexion, will have prominent cheeks, and will have fear from enemies. If Jupiter be tn Upaveaanavaslha, the native will be garrulous, very proud be troubled by king and enemies and will have ulcers on feet* shanks, face and hands. If Jupiter be in Netrapani Avastha* the native will be afflicted by diseases, devoid of wealth, be fond of music and dances, libidinous, tawny in complexion and be attached to other castemen. If Jupiter be in Prakasavastha, the native will enjoy virtues, be happy, splendorous and will visit places holy to Lord Krishna; if Jupiter in the said Avastha is exalted, the native will attain greatness among men, be equal to Kubera— the lord of wealth. If Jupiter is in Gamanavasiha the native will be adventurous, be happy on account of friends scholar y and endowed with various kinds of wealth and with Vedic learning, If Jupiter be in Agamanavastha, serving force excellent women and the goddess of wealth will never leave the native’s abode. If Jupiter be in Sabhav.istha, the native will attain comparability with Jupiter (the God of speech) in the matter of speech, be endowed with superior corals, rubies and wealth, be rich with elephants, horses and chariots and will be supremely learned. If Jupiter be in Agamavastha, the native will be endowed with various conveyances, honours, retinue children, wife, friends and learning, be equal to a king, extremely noble, fond of literature and will take to virtuous path. If Jupiter be in Bbojanavastha the native will always beget excellent food and horses, elephants and chariots while Lakshmi, the goddess of Lucre, will never leave his house. If Jupiter be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native will receive royal honours be wealthy, endowed with knowledge of moral law (stf) and Tantra (a branch of learning dealing with magical or mystical formularies to attain superhuman powers), be supreme among the learned and be a great grammarian. If Jupiter be in Kautukavastha, the 471 Chapter 46 native will be curious ip disposition, very rich, will shine like the Sun in his circles, be exceedingly kind, be happy, honoured by the kings, endowed with sons, wealth and just disposition be very strong and be a scholar in the king’s court. If Jupiter be in Nidravastha, the native will be foolish in all his undertakings, will suffer irredeemable penury and will be devoid of righteous acts. Notes : If Jupiter is in Sayanavastha, the native will be fair in complexion but will suffer from colic pains. This Avastha of Jupiter placed in the ascendant, 7th or 10th will, however, give wealth and scholarship. Being in Upavesanavastha, if Jupiter occupies the 2nd, 3rd, 11th or 12th, the native will be virtuous and learned. In Netrapani Avastha, Jupiter will give head diseases and destroy the undertaking of the native. The native will be ever of doubtful disposition. If Jupiter is in Prakasana- vastha in a house other than the ascendant and the 10th, the native will incur diseases of privities and rectum. Jupiter in a house other than the 2nd, 5th, 7th and 10th, in Agamanavastha will bring fear from snakes. Sabhavasthh of Jupiter will make the native rich through others’ wealth. Should Sabhavastha occur to Jupiter in the 8th or in the 12th, the native will lose everything in his life. If Jupiter is in the asscendant in Bhojana- vastha, the native will be fond of flesh, be eloquent, libidinous and be happy in every manner. In other houses than the ascendant, 5th and 1 be 9th, this state of Jupiter will produce many diseases. In Nrityalipsavastha, Jupiter placed in the ascendant, 5th, 9th or 10th will give abundant wealth while in other houses this cannot be expected of him. In Kautukavastha he will give wealth if in the ascendant, ICth or 7th only. Jupiter in Nidravastha will make one miserable, suffer eye diseases and wander all over. If he is in the 12th with this Avastha, there will be riches while this Avastha of Jupiter in the 5th, 7th or 10th will destory the native’s wife and children. TOIcT I srcidf tittu U\oo\\ 4 72 Brihat Parasara flora Sastra qqt qtqilr [qiqq q^q fTW grqq l WIFfPR qRTq ^"RTqTTvTT ferotTHT q*te H?o$U wraft qqq fqq»J qnr% qnqTqrrq&gt;fn:»jsnr&lt;ft qq: i *J5&amp;*§cq qq JWnf *iq VT^rfqoTiTf^T^g^ *f)qfqq \\% 0 ^h n*T% 5R^ qq tTFI *TTrU *t sftqfa \ ^Tfutftift fqtftqTO 3RmTHf^r?(W: II arm* qqqfq famqft qgq: I mf qqqqrat ^TtfcaTtnt qii ; o*n sRTqr^TW qqfa inffr qgqi qqewkw: qqfa ynfqar: *rq) i qqTqmnntf f^fqqf^m uqqq: wq?q qf qRTC qq§Tq*FcTr «Rqr: ll^o xil m*T** irnt% qmq&gt; qf«TqTqqTmTraTtftq tq%: | gq7TcT&gt; fqqrq&gt; qqMTqfoqrRiqtfci: fjrqmtq^Tfqq^i u^n W«n§^ «!TTf^fqqtfs?T: Wq%4T«mfqqqTfi?eTCq | qqtq?T ^5nr*t gq?qr q^qV qfasqqfbaqsq u^o^u T^qfqfnqqfn * qfq: qq*r qfqfqcqiq^ qiqq \ qqq&gt;n»jqqirq*fHtqrqqT?Rg«q*&gt;am foitaft: ||{oc|| V^pqqq qqqfq qqi qqsqfq qqfq q^qq I £in fatrr qfqfa q gq: qqqj fqqqfq qqqrcr: n$o£ll •R^qTTWt fq?q fqSTgqqq qsft I qrfq*qiqrt qhft qrorat iaq£ qjftq H;tou 99-110. EFFECTS OF AVASTHAS OF VENUS AT BIRTH : If Venus be in Sayanavastha, the native although strong will incur dental diseases, be very short-tempered, bereft of wealth, will seek union with courtezans and be licentious. If Venus be in Upaveaanavastha, the native will be endowed with multitude of nine gems (^qqfwr and golden ornaments, be ever happy, will destroy enemies be honoured by the king and will have highly increased honours. If Venus be in Netrapanl 473 Chapter 45 Avastha in the ascendant, the 7th or 10th, there will be loss of wealth on account of sight afflictions (i.e. heavy medical expenses due to severe eye diseases) and if the said Avastha occurs when Venus is in other houses, there will be large houses owned by the native. Should Venus be in Prakasavastba in own sign, exaltation sign of friendly sign, the native will sport like a lofty elephant, be equal to a king and be skilful in poetry and music. If Venus be in Gamanavastha, the native will not have a long living mother, will lament over separation from his own people and will have fear from enemies. If Venus be in Agamanavastha, the native will command abundant wealth, will undertake to visit superior shrines, be ever enthusiastic and will contract diseases of the hand and foot. IfVenusbein Sabhavastha the native will cam eminence in the king’s court, be very virtuous, will destroy enemies, be equal to Kubera in wealth, charitable, will ride on horses and will be excellent among men. If Venus is in Agamavastha, there will be no advent of wealth but troubles from enemies, separation from children and relatives, diseases and lack of pleasures from the wife. Should Venus be in Bhojanarastha, the native will be distressed due to hunger, diseases and many kinds of fear front enemies and if the said planet is in Virgo in Bhojanavastha, the native will be very rich and will be honoured by scholars. If Vepus be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native will be skilful in literature, intelligent, will play musical instruments like lute, taber etc., be meritorious and very affluent. If Venus be in K ntukavastha, the native will be equal to Lord Indra, will attain greatness in the assembly, be learned and will have Lakshmi always swelling in his abode. If Venus be in Nidravastiia, the native will be interested in serving others, will blame others, be heroic, garrulous and wandering all over the earth. Notes : Venus in Sayanavastha in the ascendant will confer riches; if in the 7th or in the 1 Ith in the said Avastha, the native will be endowed with all kinds of happiness, will never face shortage of money and will have 7 sons and 5 daughters. In other houses than the ascendant, 7th and 11th, Venus in Sayana- vaslha will destroy the progeny of the native. If Venus is in Upavesanavastha, the native will have a defect or injury on the right side of the body. He will suffer from pains of joints as 474 Srihat Parasara Hora Sastra well. Should Upavesanavastha occur to Venus in exaltation or in own sign, the native will be endowed with all kinds of happiness. There will be sure loss of eye sight if Venus is in Netrapani Avastha. The 10th house placement of Venus in Netrapani Avastha is not praiseworthy for riches while in other houses than the ascendant, 7th and 10th this will bring abundant wealth apart from giving two wives. Prakasana Avastha of Venus placed in the 2nd, 7th, 9th or the ascendant will give wealth and sterling disposition. And if he be in the 10th or in exaltation or in friendly sign, the native will occupy a high position with the king. In other houses than these, Prakasa- vastha of Venus will give many diseases and miseries. If Venus is in Sabhavastha the native will receive royal favours and be akin to Kubera in wealth. Should Venus be in Sabhavastha in an enemy s sign or in aspect to an enemy, it will destroy everything. Nrityalipsavaslha of Venus will confer a high degree of learning while Nidravastha will cause litigations, diseases, disputes and poverty. Kautukavastha of Venus will give abundant riches, wife and numerous children. faster: fltpT l eTcft l|g l til'- HA 1 U $ ^|t srtpmfar*m qwnr tw \ iittvu I an*TR^ rr5*T*regq?T: farmer: i 31^ far*? spiffa SR^JT I fHdw yff it* t^u Chapter 45 475 q ?7 cTTT I * “O qqq aTT^qf^TfaTf^cn *lf?T: TOT III {ell tfqf* siffa *ng?P5q ■vjt^ *RrfcT *frsN th; i *Tq?T HmiWcTT clcTT *ft^rTI*T^cfv,rl rf^rTT *T%: $£ 1 ) q?qfaeqPT?* 0 *rf?*TT fq^far: I ?rd aKt qfrfftf u^«n *T?f?T q^gqrmw^'nn^ Tfqtf^ ^UTqtfqftrT: I sifaFrcft H^^nqqfTrT: rt: h^*ii faffing srraTqrqg# art* ?rt t q CTqaft ^f«nRT$^TT ^qRq&gt;Fcn^RTcTfq 5 T: 11^3^11 n 1-1 22. EFFECTS OF SATURN’S AVAST HAS AT BIRTH : If Saturn is in Sayuimvastha, the native will be troubled by hunger and thirst, will incur diseases in boyhood and later on will become wealthy. If Saturn be in Upavesanavastha the native will be troubled greatly by enemies, will contract dangers, will have ulcers allovcr the body, be self-respected and be punished by the king. If Saturn be in Netrapani Avastha, the native will be endowed with a charming female, wealth, royal favour and friends, will have knowledge of many arts and be an eloquent speaker. If Saturn be in Prakasavastha, the native will be very virtuous, very wealthy, intelligent, sportive, splendorous, merciful and devoted to Lord Siva. If Saturn be in Gamanavastba, the native will be very rich, endowed with sons; will grab cnemie’s lands and be a scholar at royal court. If Saturn be in Agamanavastha, the native will be akin to a donkey (i.e. foolish), bereft of happiness from wife and children, will always roam pitiably without anybody's patronage. If Saturn be in Sabhavastha, the native will have surprising (i.e. great) possessions of abundant precious stones and gold, be endowed with great judicial (or political) knowledge and be extremely brilliant. If Saturn be in Agamavastha, the native will incur diseases, and will not be skilful in earning royal patronage. If Saturn be in Bhojanavastha, the native will enjoy tastes of food, be weak-sighted and be fickle-minded due to mental delusion. If Saturn be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native 476 Brihat Parasara flora Sastra wil! be righteous, extremely opulent, honoured by the king, brave and be heroic in warfield. If Saturn be Kautukavastha the native will be endowed with lands and wealth, be happy, endowed with pleasures through charming females and learned in poetry, arts etc. If Saturn be in Nidravastha. the native will be rich, endowed with charming virtues, valorous, will destroy even fierce enemies and be skilful in seeking pleasures through harlots. Notes : If Saturn is in Sayanavastha in the 5th house, the native will be endowed with progeny and be happy in all manners; if in the ascendant, 6th or 8th, the native will live in alien places, be very poor and peaccless. This Avastha to Saturn will also cause diseases of the rectum (i r respective of the planet’s placement). Saturn in Upavesanavastha will ever cause diffi- culties from the government and destruction of wealth. Saturn placed in the 10th or in the ascendant with Netrapani Avastha when unchecked will cause miseries in livelihood; in the 5th/7th there will be destruction of wealth, wife and progeny and in a house other than 1st, 5th and 7th, this Avastha of Saturn will give wealth and happiness from all sources. If Prakasanavastha occurs to Saturn while being in the 7th or the 9th, the native and his entire Tacc will be “destroyed’*. Should Sabhavastha occur to Saturn in an enemy’s sign or with an aspect from an enemy, there will be absolute destruction of the native’s possession, Bhojanavastha of Saturn will cause digestive diffi- culties, piles and eye defects; if Saturn is in simultaneously exaltation or in own sign, the native will enjoy all kinds of happiness and be ever devoid of diseases. Kautukavastha of Saturn in the 5th/7th/9th will destroy everything and will leave the native with diseases alone. Should this Avastha occur to Saturn in another house than 5th/7th/9th, the native will be favoured by the king, will be very rich, meritorious, skilful, happy, learned and adorable. If Saturn is in Nidravastha, the native will be opulent, learned, will have two wives and many male issues and be very honourable for his sterlingness Should Nidravastha occur to Saturn in the 1 0th house, there will be penury, diseases, living in alien places and obstruction to undertakings at every step If he is in an angle or in a trine or in exaltation, these evil effects will not come to pass. 477 Chapter 45 q*T*T*rt q?q TT?ft ^^TTfij^caf SSTd I q$sq qt^sfa ^ sRUTOTm: €. &lt;S s qfry refi qy qarqfa ^ qftcFrr: i *7*raqm?ft fqrrqtqq s*r Tf^r; ?qi?u?^i gcgsq H i r T^KFit qq q?q «nrcw nwn Jmw STATOR frqfo: frfo: ?t«t q®rt I A^rf^nterfa: qqr fqqrqmfq^ \ tJTTFa'nfsrqTlfCrn q?lVcTT tfcTT THql'H^Tar Ifrf =1^9 left l&gt;HV' TTTT# ^ qqr TT^ qf^iM^FSTT:: » crfiscft er«tr *Tm TT^qsrft ?rd qtq u?^u qt^nrqq *rqT qhiddfiid: i prq: qnql q7^ ^qfa qqqiH^cii qmqdt qqT Tif : qf^: fq^it qr: \ faxT ste*KHTfaRf: 1 1 H €.1 1 wyqiqrqq q?q jtt^ ct^t sqi^rq tf4KTfawt?qT tqqq t q^44^uqi4t 3RT5TT fqqicft *15?* M o I) jft aFta ref fq’PHt q%qj R^qqf^: fqsqrqta: : ^ trfTEmfafqq;?^ i %V&gt;qt frqHffegqaq^ fn* \\\\v\ ^ q*T TT?1 SR&gt; ^ 1 qrsRT?^ fa?q qr^rfm^iTVi u?^^m fq5Tq?qf TT^\ 5"TOWfa&gt; ^ i qnqn H»di qq cq qf^rt qgfadqH n?^vu 123-134. EFFECTS OFRAHU’S AVASTHAS AT BIRTH : If Rahu be in Sayanavastha, the native will experience miseries 478 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra galore; but if Rahu in the slid Avastha be in Taurus, Gemini, Virgo or Aries the native will be endowed with wealth and grains. If Rahu be in Upavesanavastha the native will be distressed due to ulcers, be endowed with royl association, highly honourable and ever deviod of financial happiness. If Rahu be in Netrapani Avastha, the native will be troubled by eye diseases, will have fear from wicked people, snakes and thieves and will incur financial decline. If Rahu be in Prakasavastha, the native will acquire a high position, will perform auspieious acts, will obtain elevation of financial state, be highly virtuous, be a chief in the king’s court, be charming like freshly formed clouds (that Will cause soon rain) and be very prosperous in foreign places. If Rahu is in Gamanavasfha the native will be endowed with numreous children, be scholarly, wealthy, chari- table and honoured by the king. If Rahu is in Agamanavastha the native will be very irritable, bereft of intelligence and wealth crooked miserly and libidinous. If Rahu is in Sabhavastha the native will be scholarly, miserly, and endowed with many virtues, wealth and happiness. If Rahu be in Agamavastha, the native wfil be always mentally distressed, will have fear from enemies and litigations with enemies, be bereft of his own men, will face financial destruction, and be crafty and emaciated. If Rahu be in Bbojanavastha, the native will be distressed without food dull-witted, be not bold in his acts and be bereft of conjugal and progemc happiness. If Rahu be in Nrityalipsarastha, the native will contract a great and unsubduing disease, will have afflicted eyes and fear frorp enemies and will decline financially and righteously. If Rahu be in Kautukavastha, the native will be devoid of a position (or a place), be interested in others’ famales and will steal others' wealth. If Rahu be in Nidravastha the native will be a repository of virtues, be endowed with wife’and children, bold, proud and very affluent. Notes : If Rahu in Sayanavastha is in Leo, Virgo or Taurus, there will be all round happiness whereas in other signs he is adverse with this Avastha. Rahu’s Upavesanavastha will destroy ones wealth and will cause difficulties in day-to-day affairs. His Netrapani Avastha in the ascendant or in the 7th will bring many evils and miseries while in other houses it will bring danger from animals. Rahu in Prakasan avastha in Leo Chapter 45 479 or in Cancer will cause amputation of head; in other signs it gives wealth and royal service. Rahu’s Sabhavastha in the 5th/ lOth/lst will destroy the native’s progeny and spouse and will make hint fickle-minded. This Avastha in other houses will give virtues, scholarship and wealth. With Rahu in the 10th or in the 7th Bhojanavastha the native will ‘kill’ his wife or he may abandon her or may not be happy in married life, and be irreligious. Nrityalipsavastha of Rahu in the ascendant will deprive the native of his progcnic ability while in other houses this Avastha will give two wives and all kinds of happiness. Should Rahu be in Kautukavastha in a house other than 5th/ 7th/ 10th, the native will incur many kinds of miseries and be bereft of spouse and progeny. Nidravastha of Rahu will inflict utter poverty and make the native wander all over the earth aimlessly. trr ^ mi EPTfnrfe: ww-titR 3Tft®neFWqi?TsrtTWT flRhHd: 1 1 \ ^ 1 1 5T^T?Td HTOFT STrfa«fi: Ml Bereft n^cll *t?tt ii'^eu anmR w mi fcgqfarcltrt mm: \ faTR: ll^tfoU qRmt qgqfar: 1 srrTfonfcwrc*: n$v?u *wi«l% HW5%§: gqTrqTMqnfrrW I 480 Brlhat Pcrasara Hora Sastra 5 ant 0=r?*r wram ’Tfr'ftferT: \ Sf73&gt; T&gt;THrT^T: %rft ^fcT 11**311 sjcsrfa'ar^ %ff&gt; sulfur fspFvft si^r \ ITTOtff £J&lt;TfS5T«f*T&gt; *T: II? WH sftfsKV ^g% %rft ?T£siT*TRfrTfsro: I ^^FT^os^t ?fra&gt; 'sre^ TT^n?^nn fa?T3PIT ^ %rft ?FTUI-iiyW XT^cT I ^PpifaHt^T &lt;FTvI&gt; Slfa^m U**V&gt; 135-146. EFFECTS OF KETU’S A V AS WAS AT BIRTH : If Ketu is in Sayanavastha in Aries, Taurus, Gemini or Virgo, there will be plenty of wealth while in other signs increased diseases will follow. If Ketu be in Upavesanavastha the native will suffer from ulcers and will have fear from enemies, windy diseases snakes and thieves. Should Ketu be in Nelrapani Avaslha, the native will contract eye diseases, and will have fear from wicked people, snakes, enemies and people of royal family. If Ketu be in Prakasanavastha, the native will be wealthy, righteous will live in foreign places, be enthusiastic and genuine and will serve the king. If Ketu be in Gamanavastha, the native will be endowed with many sons, abundant wealth, be scholarly, virtuous, charitable and be excellent among men. If Ketu be in Agamanavastha, the native will incur many diseases, will face loss of wealth, will hurt (others) with his teeth (^^Tfavr), be a talebearer and will blame others. If Ketu be in Sahhavastha, the native will be garrulous, very proud, miserly, licentious and skilful in evil branches of learning. If Ketu be in Agamavastha, the native will be a notorious sinner, will enter into litigations with his relatives be wicked and troubled by diseases and enemies. If Ketu be in Bhojanavastha, the native will always be distressed with hunger, penury and diseases and will roam allover the earth. If Ketu be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native will be distressed due to diseases, will have a floral mark on the eye (i.e. white of the pupil), be impertinent, wicked and will plan evils. If Ketu be in Kautukavastha, the native will seek union with dancing females (i.e. prostitutes), will suffer positional displacement, will take to evil paths and will roam Chapter 45 481 all over. If Ketu be in Nidravastha the native will be endowed with wealth and corns, be virtuous and will spend his time sportively. f?nS5f?rT ?TTtf^T: I factf ?!TO WRO* ftfawp ^ sa:u?vv»|t 147. GENERAL EFFECTS (up to sbka ljj; ; O Brahmin, if a benefic planet is in Sayanavastba, there will be benefic effects at all times according to the learned. ?WT qqfajTmsfa ^rr*¥? faRTTtin U^Ve;H 148. If a malefic is in Bhojanavastha, everything {related to the house concerned) will be destroyed and there is no need of a second thought. fasrot q zreT «tit&gt; qrinpn# i of? ^ sn* * vffTqqnmn 149. Should a malefic in the 7th be in Nidravastha auspi- cious effects will follow, provided there is no aspect from another malefic. fpid: TBTt faawl rortsfa HT I ?RT TTH ^rTP7 ITO* VTHf f^Umi 150. Declare without a second thought auspicious effects following the location of a malefic in the 5th but with Nidra- vastha or Sayanavastba. fasnrf *r i ?ri apnsqijw: wwwn: TCremnitxtii 15 1. Untimely death due to royal wrath will come to pass if there is a malefic in the 8th in Nidravastha or Sayana- vaetha. ym qttaf nfk jtfm: \ g aw * fintqir: 482 Brihat Parasara Hora Sasfta 152. If in the above case there be a benefic aspect or conjunction, the said (untimely) death will be in the river Ganges, i e. Gangetic belt, shrines etc. *rt qw. tRhr^sPi «rr &lt; cm tpirftwwt: II m &lt; » 153. If there be a malefic in the 10th house in Sayana or Bhojanavastha, the native will face many miseries on account of his own deeds. Pin MW: n SWT4Tn 1 TrsnfrT: frsthiH utwi 154. O excellent of the Brahmins, doubtlessly a Rajayoga Will come to pass if the Moon is in the 10th in Kautukavastha or Prakasanavastha. q* t&amp;h 155. Thus the good and bad effects be guessed assessing the strength and weakness of the planets concerning all the Bhavas. I To be concluded] «ar Reader, e are glad you are reading this Unique Book, one other remaining ch apters, which contain ver raportant material, are given in Its Ilnd Part, lease write for your cony of the same. ' RANJAN PUBLICATIONS l6,Ansarl Road, Darya Ganj, New Delhi-11 0002 (INDIA) 483 fiBRAfA Page Line For 18 26 AD 72 57 23 257 59gh 47 5Vigh 60 20 4h 2m 79 22 11 2 3 121 23 tilour 197. 1 physicallp matiny 218 14 downfall 221 7 blies 222 ’19 co-bron 236 14 progery 239 20 vives 249 18 spleoorous 313 358 19 Geda 376 25 Jakata 382 19 these 400 30 If Arnatya 431 23 another 432 last but one 180 450 10 Vikala 454 7 stars 456 15 T and *r 462 I 13 if Read AD 78 257d 59gh 47.5 Vigh 4h 26m 11 2 5 valour physically mating downfall bliss coborn progeny vices splendorous Rahu in Gemini (in the charts Gada Jataka the If Atma another in 108 Dukkhita, Vikala star, Tand ?r it A Glimpse of KERALA ASTROLOGY . o. P. Verma The present work A G//mpse of Kerala Astrology is condensation of three recognised Kerala classics Kerala Jvotisha, Kerala sutra and Gopala Ratnahara which are unique in their own way &amp; speak out the essential, principles of Kera la Astrology. We suppose our readers will be enlightened by these illuminating pearls of KERALA ASTRO LOGY. Rs