=== PAGE 201 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
189 
 
 
 
Similarly, for trivial things like determining who initiates dasas, antardasas etc, we 
have very simple rules that are different from shadbala, ashtakavarga bala, avastha 
bala, Vimsopaka bala etc. 
 
As it has been emphasized many times in this book, Vedic astrology has a rich 
variety of parameters, tools and techniques. Attempting to use various techniques in 
an interchangable manner only leads to confusion. One should strive to understand 
the meanings of various parameters and tools and use the right set of parameters and 
tools for the occasion. Though we have different ways of measuring a planet’s 
strength, their meanings are different and accordingly they are used for different 
purposes. We will learn the most common ones in this chapter. 
 
15.3 Shadbala and Astakavarga Bala 
 
There are six sources of strength – strength due to placement, strength due to time, 
strength due to directions, strength due to aspects, strength due to motion and 
strength due to inherent nature. Shadbala is a measure of the strength of a planet 
based on these six sources of strength. Explaining the computation of shadbalas is 
beyond the scope of this book. For the details of its computation, one may refer to 
“Brihat Parasara Hora Sastram” by Parasara or “Graha and Bhava Balas” by Dr. 
B.V. Raman. Most computer software programs give shadbala, though there are 
minor differences between the definitions used by them. 
 
When two or planets influence the same house or when they participate in a yoga, 
then the planet with the highest shadbala is the most likely give the results. The 
planet with the strongest shadbala is like a group leader who acts on the group’s 
behalf. 
 
On the other hand, ashtakavarga bala shows how other planets support or oppose a 
planet. It does not show how capable the planet is of leading and giving the results of 
a group of planets, unlike shadbala. It shows how capable a planet is of giving its 
own results, in harmony with other planetary forces. 
 
15.4 Avasthas (States) 
 

=== PAGE 202 ===
 
 
 
 190 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Avastha literally means “state”. There are different possible states of a planet and we 
will learn them in this section. 
 
15.4.1 
State Related to Age 
 
One of the states of a planet has to do with its age. Just as a 10-year old child or an 
80-year old man have their limitations and cannot execute certain tasks efficiently, a 
planet in childhoos or old age may not be very effective. 
 
Table 35: Avasthas related to age 
In odd rasis 
In even rasis 
Avastha 
Meaning 
Results 
0º–6º 
24º–30º 
Saisava 
Child 
Quarter 
6º–12º 
18º–24º 
Kumaara 
Adolescent 
Half 
12º–18º 
12º–18º 
Yuva 
Youth 
Full 
18º–24º 
6º–12º 
Vriddha 
Old 
Some 
24º–30º 
0º–6º 
Mrita 
Dead 
None 
 
A planet at 23º in Cn will be in Kumaara avastha (adolescence) and it will give half 
of its results. A planet at 19º in Li will be in Vriddha avastha (old age) and it will not 
be very effective. A planet at 14º in Sg will be in Yuva avastha (young age) and it 
will give all of its results. A planet at 27º in Pi will be at Saisava avastha (childhood) 
and it will give one quarter of its results. 
 
One should not be carried away with these avasthas. Just as there are some child 
prodigies and wizards with wrinkles, a planet can give good results irrespective of its 
age-related state. Age is just one of the factors deciding a person’s productivity. 
Similarly, age-related state is just one of the factors deciding a planet’s effectiveness. 
 
15.4.2 
State Related to Alertness 
 
We have 3 alertness-related states of planets: 
 
(1) A planet in its exaltation rasi or an own rasi is said to be in “Jaagrita” avastha 
(awake). It gives full results. 
(2) A planet in a rasi owned by a neutral) or friendly planet is said to be in “Swapna” 
avastha (dreaming). It gives medium results. 

=== PAGE 203 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
191 
 
 
 
(3) A planet in its debilitation rasi or a rasi owned by an enemy is said to be in 
“Sushupta” avastha (asleep). The results it gives are negligible. 
 
15.4.3 
State Related to Attitude and Mood 
 
We have 9 states of planets that are related to attitude and mood : 
 
(1) A planet in its exaltation rasi is said to be in “Deepta” avastha (bright). 
(2) A planet in its own rasi is said to be in “Swastha” avastha (doing well, contented, 
comfortable, natural). 
(3) A planet in a good friend’s rasi is said to be in “Mudita” avastha (delighted). 
(4) A planet in a friend’s rasi is said to be in “Saanta” avastha (peaceful). 
(5) A planet in a neutral planet’s rasi is said to be in “Deena” avastha (sad, 
depressed). 
(6) A planet in an enemy’s rasi is said to be in “Duhkhita” avastha (distressed, 
miserable). 
(7) A planet joined by malefic planets is said to be in “Vikala” avastha (crippled, 
confused). 
(8) A planet in a malefic planet’s rasi is said to be in “Khala” avastha (mischievous, 
scheming). 
(9) A planet joined closely by Sun is said to be in “Kopita” avastha (angry). 
 
We have 6 additional states of planets that are related to attitude and mood : 
 
(1) A planet in the 5th house joined by Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu is said to 
be in “Lajjita” avastha (ashamed). 
(2) A planet in its exaltation rasi or moolatrikona rasi is said to be in “Garvita” 
avastha (proud). 
(3) A planet is in an enemy’s rasi or conjoined by enemies or aspected by enemies or 
conjoined by Saturn, it is said to be in “Kshudhita” avastha (hungry). 
(4) A planet stationed in a watery rasi and aspected by enemies without the aspect of 
benefics is said to be in “Trishita” avastha (thirsty). 

=== PAGE 204 ===
 
 
 
 192 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(5) A planet in a friend’s sign, conjoined or aspected by friends and conjoined by 
Jupiter, is said to be in “Mudita” avastha (delighted). 
(6) A planet conjoined by Sun and aspected by malefics or enemies is said to be in 
“Kshobhita” avastha (shaken, agitated). 
 
Planets give results based on the state they are in. If a house contains planets in 
Kshudhita or Kshobhita avasthas, the significations of the house are affected. If a 
planet in the 5th house is in Lajjita avastha, there may be losses related to progeny. If 
a planet in the 7th house is in Kshobhita avastha, there may be loss of spouse.  
 
15.4.4 
States Relates to Activity 
 
There are 12 possible states of a planet related to its activity. This state is the most 
important of all states. For each planet, we use the following formula to find its 
avastha. 
 
Suppose C is the number of the constellation occupied by the planet (1 for Aswini, 2 
for Bharani and so on). Suppose P is the index of the planet whose avastha we are 
finding (1 for Sun, 2 for Moon). Suppose A is the index of the amsa (navamsa) 
occupied by the planet in its rasi51. Suppose M is the constellation occupied by 
Moon. Suppose G is the ghati running at birth.52 Suppose L is the rasi occupied by 
lagna (1 for Ar, 2 for Ta and so on). Then we compute (C x P x A) + M + G + L, 
divide it by 12 and take the remainder. Using the resulting number as the avastha 
index and referring to Table 36, we find out the avastha of the planet. 
 
Table 36: Sayanaadi Avasthas 
Avastha 
Index 
Avastha name 
Meaning 
1 
Sayana 
Lying down, resting 
2 
Upavesana 
Sitting down 
3 
Netrapaani 
Eyes and hands 
                                                 
51 For example, let us say Mercury is in 22Ge14. Each navamsa has a length of 3°20' (1/9th of 30°) and 
22°14' in Ge is in the 7th navamsa of Ge (please note that we are not talking about the rasi occupied by 
the planet in navamsa). Then we use A = 7 for Mercury. 
52 Suppose sunrise was at 6 am and someone was born at 11 pm. So 17 hours were over. Each hour 
has 2.5 ghatis and 17 hours = 17 x 2.5 = 42.5. So the 43rd ghati was running at birth. 

=== PAGE 205 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
193 
 
 
 
4 
Prakaasana 
Shining 
5 
Gamana 
Going (on the move) 
6 
Aagamana 
Coming, returning 
7 
Sabhaa (Sabhaa vasati) 
Being at an assembly 
8 
Aagama 
Coming/Acquiring 
9 
Bhojana 
Eating 
10 
Nriyalipsaa 
Longing to dance 
11 
Kautuka 
Being eager 
12 
Nidraa 
Sleeping 
 
After we find the avastha index, we can multiply it with itself and add the number 
corresponding to the first sound in the first syllable of the name, as found from Table 
37. We can take the remainder when that number is divided by 12. Then we can add 
a planetary adjustment to the remainder. We use 5 for Sun and Jupiter, 2 Moon and 
Mars, 3 for Mercury, Venus and Saturn and 4 for Rahu and Ketu. We divide the sum 
by 3 and take the remainder. This gives the strength of the activity. A value of 1 
means “drishti” and medium results. A value of 2 means “cheshta” and full results. A 
value of 3 (or 0) means “vicheshta” and gives very little results. Based on the 
activity-related state of a planet, we can guess the results given by it. Based on 
whether it is in Cheshta, Drishti or Vicheshta, the results will be full, medium or 
little. An example will clarify this computation. 
Table 37: Numbers of the Sounds 
Number
Sounds 
Roman transliteration 
1 
 
a, ka, chh, d (alveolar), dh (dental), bh, v
2 
 
i, kh, j, dh (alveolar), n (dental), m, s/sh 
(palatal) 
3 
 
u, g, jh, t, p, y, sh (alveolar) 
4 
 
e, gh, t (alveolar), th (dental), ph, r, s 
(dental) 
5 
 
o, ch, th (alveolar), d (dental), b, l, h 
 
Results in Sayana avastha: 
 
Sun: Digestive troubles, diseases, stout legs, bile, piles, heart troubles. 

=== PAGE 206 ===
 
 
 
 194 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Moon: Honorable, sluggish, lustful, spoils finances. 
Mars: Troubled, wounded, ulcers, itches. 
Mercury: Addicted to pleasures, licentious, wicked, always hungry; [in lagna] lame, 
eyes like a bee. 
Jupiter: Strong, but weak voice, tawny complexion, prominent cheeks, afraid of 
enemies. 
Venus: Strong, troubles of teeth, short-tempered, poor, licentious. 
Saturn: Hungry, thirst, dieases in childhood, wealthy later. 
Rahu: Many miseries; [in Ar, Ta, Ge, Vi] wealth. 
Ketu: Many diseases; [in Ar, Ta, Ge, Vi] wealth. 
 
Results in Upavesana avastha: 
 
Sun: Poor, fond of quarrels, hard-hearted, loses money. 
Moon: diseases, unintelligent, poor, merciless, does misdeeds, steals money. 
Mars: Strong, sinful, liar, eminent, wealthy. 
Mercury: [in lagna] good character; [conjoined/aspected by malefics] poor; 
[conjoined/aspected by benefics] wealthy and happy. 
Jupiter: Talkative, troubled by enemies and kings, ulcers on feet, hands, feet. 
Venus: Endowed with gems and gold, destroys enemies, honored by kings, happy. 
Saturn: Self-respect, punished by kings, troubles by enemies, faces dangers, ulcers. 
Rahu: Distressed due to ulcers, royal association, honorable, but financial troubles. 
Ketu: Distressed due to ulcers, troubles from enemies, snakes and thieves, windy 
(vaata-related) diseases. 
 
Results in Netrapaani avastha: 
 
Sun: Ever happy, wise, helps others, strong, wealthy, pleasures, favorite of kings. 
Moon: Great diseases, garrulous, wicked, always bad actions. 
Mars: [in lagna] penury; [elsewhere] ruler of a town. 

=== PAGE 207 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
195 
 
 
 
Mercury: Honorable, no wisdom, no learning, no well-wishers; [in 5th] no happiness 
from wife and children, many daughters, gains money from royal patronage. 
Jupiter: Devoid of health and wealth, libidinous, likes entertainment, tawny 
complexion, moves with people of a different class. 
Venus: [in lagna, 7th or 10th] troubles to eyes and loss of wealth; [else] large house. 
Saturn: Charming wife, learned in arts, royal favors, friends, intelligent, good 
speaker. 
Rahu: Eyes troubles, financial losses, troubles from wicked men, snakes and thieves. 
Ketu: Eyes troubles, troubles from wicked men, snakes, thieves and rulers. 
 
Results in Prakaasana avastha: 
 
Sun: Charitable, wealthy, good orator in assemblies, strong, good-looking. 
Moon: Famous in world, virtuous, royal patronage, royal insignia, wealth, luxuries, 
regular visits to shrines, many ornaments. 
Mars: Virtuous and honored by kings; [in 5th] loss of children; [in 5th with Rahu] 
faces a severe fall. 
Mercury: Charitable, kind, good deeds, scholar of many subjects, wise and destroyer 
of groups of wicked men. 
Jupiter: Virtuous, pure happiness and comfort, splendorous, visits holy places of 
Krishna; [if exalted] excellent fame in the whole world, very opulent. 
Venus: [exalted or in own/friendly rasi] has a conduct similar to a mighty elephant; 
equal to a king, interested in poetry, arts and music. 
Saturn: Virtuous, intelligent, opulent, likes entertainment, kind, devotee of Shiva. 
Rahu: Prosperous in foreign places, virtuous, welthy, high position, good deeds, a 
chief in king’s court, charming. 
Ketu: Wealthy, righteous, lives abroad, enthusiastic, genuine, serves the king. 
 
Results in Gamana avastha: 
 
Sun: Lives in foreign lands, unhappy, lazy, unwise, poor, disturbed by fears, angry. 
Moon: [if waning] sinful, cruel, eye troubles; [if waxing] troubled by fear. 

=== PAGE 208 ===
 
 
 
 196 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Mars: Wanderer, boils, itches, quarrels with women, many wounds and ulcers. 
Mercury: Visits the courts of kings frequently, wealthy. 
Jupiter: Brave, many friends, scholar, wealthy. 
Venus: Mother doesn’t live long, separated from own people, fear from enemies. 
Saturn: Rich, good sons, scholar at a king’s court, grabs other people’s land. 
Rahu: Many children, scholarly, wealthy, charitable and honored by a king. 
Ketu: Many children, scholarly, wealthy, charitable, virtuous, great man. 
 
Results in Aagamana avastha: 
 
Sun: Affairs with the wives of others, deserted by people, likes travels, cheat, dirty. 
Moon: Honorable, diseases of feet, secret sins, poor, unintelligent, sad. 
Mars: Good character, endowed with gems, has weapons, destroyer of enemies. 
Mercury: Visits the courts of kings frequently, wealthy. 
Jupiter: Servants, excellent women and wealth always adore his abode. 
Venus: Wealthy, visits holy shrines, enthusiastic, diseases of hands and feet. 
Saturn: Separated from family, foolish, wanderer, miserable. 
Rahu: Irritable, unintelligent, poor, wicked, miserly, libidinous. 
Ketu: Diseases, loss of wealth, tale-bearer, hurts others. 
 
Results in Sabhaa avastha: 
 
Sun: Helps others, possesses wealth, gems and lands, virtuous, very strong, 
affectionate and kind. 
Moon: Eminent, honored by kings, sexual pleasures, good character. 
Mars: A scholar in a king’s court, wealthy, honorable, charitable; [if exalted] skilled 
at wars, successful, upholds dharma; [in trines] unlearned; [in 12th] devoid of 
happiness from wife and children. 
Mercury: [if exalted] highly wealthy and good deeds; wealthy, king or a minister, 
devotion to Vishnu and Shiva, saattwik, obtains moksha. 

=== PAGE 209 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
197 
 
 
 
Jupiter: Excellent speech, superior gems and wealth, , royal insignia, supremely 
learned. 
Venus: Eminent in a king’s court, virtuous, destroyer of enemies, wealthy and 
charitable. 
Saturn: Displays excellent judicial knowledge in assemblies, excellent wealth and 
gems, exceedingly brilliant. 
Rahu: Scholarly, miserly, many virtues, wealthy, happy. 
Ketu: Garrulous, proud, miserly, licentious, skillful in evil subjects. 
 
Results in Aagama avastha: 
 
Sun: Troubled by enemies, fickle-minded, cheat, emaciated, doesn’t follow good 
dharma and karma, wanton. 
Moon: [if waxing] Garrulous, virtuous; [if waning] two wives, sick, cheat, wicked. 
Mars: Bad character and deeds, ear troubles, timid, friendly with evil-minded people. 
Mercury: Serves mean people and makes money, two sons, one daugher who brings 
good name. 
Jupiter: Many conveyances, comforts, honors, servants, happiness from progeny, 
knowledge, friends, learning and noble path. 
Venus: No wealth, troubles from enemies, separation from children, diseases, 
unhappiness from spouse. 
Saturn: Diseases, not skillful, no royal patronage. 
Rahu: Financial losses, fear of enemies and litigation, depressed, separated from own 
people, emaciated, manipulative. 
Ketu: Notorious, sinful, litigation with own men, diseases, enemies. 
 
Results in Bhojana avastha: 
 
Sun: Pains in joints, loss of wealth over opposite sex, loss of strength, lies, 
headaches, spreading lies, bad path. 
Moon: [if waxing] Social status, honor, conveyances, wife and daughters, servants; 
[if waning] these results will be hard to get. 

=== PAGE 210 ===
 
 
 
 198 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Mars: [if strong] sweet food; [if weak] means acts, dishonorable. 
Mercury: Financial losses in litigations, wrath of kings, no marital happiness. 
Jupiter: Excellent food, wealth, royal insignia. 
Venus: [debilitated] wealthy, respected by scholars; [else] Distressed due to hunger, 
dieases, fear from enemies. 
Saturn: Weak-sighted, delusion, enjoys tasty food. 
Rahu: No happiness from wife and children, bereft of good food, timid. 
Ketu: Hungry, sick, wanderer, poor. 
 
Results in Nrityalipsaa avastha: 
 
Sun: Learned, scholar, good at discussing poetry, reverred by kings. 
Moon: [if waxing] strong, knowledge of poetry and music, connoisseur of arts; [if 
waning] sinful. 
Mars: Wealthy though royal connections, has gold, diamonds and corals. 
Mercury: Honor, conveyances, gems, valorous, friends, progeny, learned in 
assemblies; [in a malefic rasi] licentious, goes to prostitutes. 
Jupiter: Honored by kings, wealthy, learned in dharma sastra and tantra, revered by 
powerful men, respected by learned men, a scholar and faultless in grammar and 
etymology. 
Venus: Skillful in literature, arts, music, meritorious and opulent. 
Saturn: Righteous, opulent, honored by kings, brave and heroic at wars. 
Rahu: Great disease, eye problems,  fear from enemies, financial losses. 
Ketu: Diseases, eye troubles, wicked, sinful. 
 
Results in Kautuka avastha: 
 
Sun: Happy, learned, performs yajnas (rites), stays at a king’s palace, good at 
discussing poetry, good-looking. 
Moon: King, wealthy, skillful in sexual acts. 
Mars: Curious, friends and children; [if exalted] honored by king and virtuous. 

=== PAGE 211 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
199 
 
 
 
Mercury: [in lagna] skillful in music; [in 7th or 8th] addicted to courtesans; [in 9th] 
good deeds and character, goes to heaven. 
Jupiter: Curious, very kind, happy, honored, sons, famous. 
Venus: Opulent, learned, famous and respected in assemblies. 
Saturn: Endowed with lands, wealthy, happy, pleasures from charming ladies, 
learned in poetry and arts. 
Rahu: Wanderer, after other men’s wives, steals other men’s wealth. 
Ketu: Goes after courtesans, losses in profession, sinful, wanderer. 
 
Results in Nidraa avastha: 
 
Sun: Drowsy, lives abroad, troubles to wife. 
Moon: [if with Jupiter] eminent; [without Jupiter] loses wealth on females, troubles. 
Mars: Angry, unintelligent, poor, wicked, fallen from the virtuous path, sick. 
Mercury: Uncomfortable sleep, troubles of neck, miseries, litigation with own men, 
loses wealth. 
Jupiter: Poor, unintelligent, foolish, no righteous acts. 
Venus: Serves others, criticizes others, garrulous, wanderer. 
Saturn: Rich, charming, good character, brave, destroys all enemies, skillful in 
dealing with women. 
Rahu: Virtuous, good wife and children, happy, proud, bold, wealthy. 
Ketu: Virtuous, endowed with wealth and agricultural products, whiles away time 
with entertainment. 
 
Example 49: Let us take a native born at 5:50 pm (IST) on 4th April 1970 at 
Machilipatnam, India (81E12, 16N15). Let us find the activity-related states of 
Mercury, Jupiter and Venus for this native. The native’s given name starts with “V”. 
 
Moon is in Poorvabhadrapada, i.e. the 25th constellation. So M = 25. The native was 
born at 5:50 pm and sunrise was at 6 am. So 11:50 hours passed since sunrise. In 
minutes, this is 710 minutes. Because a ghati contains 24 minutes, this is 29.6 ghatis. 
So the 30th ghati after sunrise was running at birth. So G = 30. Lagna is in Virgo, the 

=== PAGE 212 ===
 
 
 
 200 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
6th rasi from Aries and so L = 6. The native’s given name starts with “V” and the 
number corresponding to this sound is 1. 
 
Mercury: Mercury is at 3Ar08. He is in Aswini, i.e. 1st constellation. So C = 1. 
Because Mercury is the 4th planet from Sun, P = 4. Mercury is in the first 1/9th of Ar 
and so A = 1. Using the formula, we get (C x P x A) + M + G + L = (1 x 4 x 1) + 25 + 
30 + 6 = 65. Dividing it by 12, we get a remainder of 5. From Table 36, we see that 
an avastha index of 5 means “Gamana” avastha (going/on the move). We see that 5 x 
5 is 25. Adding 1 (corresponding to the sound), we get 26. Remainder when this is 
divided by 12 is 2. Adding 3 (Mercury’s planetary adjustment), we get 5. When we 
divide it by 3, remainder is 2. It shows “Cheshta”. So Mercury’s results due to 
“Gamana” avastha are given in full. We see that the standard results are “visits the 
courts of kings frequently, wealthy”. 
 
Jupiter: Jupiter is at 9Li46. He is in Swaati, i.e. 15th constellation. So C = 15. 
Because Jupiter is the 5th planet from Sun, P = 5. Jupiter is in the third 1/9th of Li and 
so A = 3. Using the formula, we get (C x P x A) + M + G + L = (15 x 5 x 3) + 25 + 30 
+ 6 = 286. Dividing it by 12, we get a remainder of 10. From Table 36, we see that 
an avastha index of 10 means “Nriyalipsaa” avastha (urge for dance). We see that 10 
x 10 is 100. Adding 1 (corresponding to the sound), we get 101. Remainder when 
this is divided by 12 is 5. Adding 5 (Jupiter’s planetary adjustment), we get 10. 
When we divide it by 3, remainder is 1. It shows “Drishti”. So Jupiter’s results due to 
“Nriyalipsaa” avastha are given only to a medium extent. We see that the standard 
results are: “honored by kings, wealthy, learned in dharma sastra and tantra, revered 
by powerful men, respected by learned men, a scholar and faultless in grammar and 
etymology”. 
 
Venus: Venus is at 7Ar55. He is in Aswini, i.e. 1st constellation. So C = 1. Because 
Venus is the 6th planet from Sun, P = 6. Venus is in the third1/9th of Ar and so A = 3. 
Using the formula, we get (C x P x A) + M + G + L = (1 x 6 x 3) + 25 + 30 + 6 = 79. 
Dividing it by 12, we get a remainder of 7. From Table 36, we see that an avastha 
index of 7 means “Sabhaa” avastha (assemby/council). We see that 7 x 7 is 49. 
Adding 1 (corresponding to the sound), we get 50. Remainder when this is divided 
by 12 is 2. Adding 3 (planetary adjustment of Venus), we get 5. When we divide it 
by 3, remainder is 2. It shows “Cheshta”. So Venus’s results due to “Sabhaa” avastha 
are given in full. We see that the standard results are “eminent in a king’s court, 
virtuous, destroyer of enemies, wealthy and charitable”. 
 

=== PAGE 213 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
201 
 
 
 
Exercise 24: Consider a gentleman born at 8:30 am (LMT) on 8th November 1927 at 
67E03, 24N52. Find the activity-related states of Sun, Mars and Jupiter and interpret 
them. His name starts with the sound “L”. 
 
Importance of Sayanaadi Avasthas: 
 
Sayanaadi (Sayana etc) avasthas are the most important of all avasthas. In addition to 
the results listed above, Parasara listed some special results. If a benefic is in Sayana 
avastha, the house benefits from his presence. If a malefic is in Nidraa avastha in the 
7th house without the conjunction or aspect of another malefic, it is auspicious. If a 
malefic is in Bhojana avastha, the house containing it is destroyed. If a malefic is in 
the 5th house in Sayana or Nidraa avastha, it is auspicious. If a malefic is in the 8th 
house in Sayana or Nidraa avastha, it brings death by royal wrath. If a malefic 
occupies the 10th house in Bhojana or Sayana avastha, all kinds of miseries may be 
expected. If a benefic or a planet in own or exaltation rasi occupies in the 1st, 5th, 7th 
or 10th house in Prakasana, Nrityalipsaa or Kautuka avasthas, it brings Raja Yoga. 
Parasara specifically mentioned Moon in the 10th house in Kautuka or Prakaasana 
avasthas. 
 
However, one should not be carried away with avasthas and one should remember 
that they are only the “states” of the planet. The state of a planet related to age, 
alertness, mood and activity will have a role in the results given by it, but the houses 
influenced by it in various divisional charts are more important in deciding the 
results. We should avoid the temptation to make predictions based on thumbrules 
and look-up tables. 
 
15.5 Other Simple Strengths 
 
15.5.1 
Stronger Co-Lord 
 
When we find the arudha pada of a house falling in Scorpio or Aquarius, we need to 
find the stronger of Mars & Ketu (co-lords of Sc) and Saturn & Rahu (co-lords of 
Aq). The stronger lord acts its lord and decides the arudha pada. The stronger lord of 
Sc (or Aq) is also used in finding the duration of its dasa in many rasi dasas (e.g. 
Narayana dasa). 

=== PAGE 214 ===
 
 
 
 202 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Basic rule: If one of the co-lords is in the rasi, take the other planet. For example, if 
Saturn is in Aq and Rahu is in a rasi other than Aq, Rahu becomes the primary lord 
of Aq. If not, we find the stronger of the 2 planets and the stronger planet becomes 
the primary lord. 
 
The stronger planet of two planets is determined using the following rules. We go 
from one rule to the next, only if we do not have a winner. If we have a winner in 
one step, we do not go through the remaining steps. 
 
(1) If one planet is joined by more planets than the other, it is stronger. Suppose 
Saturn is in Pi with Mars and Sun and Rahu is in Ar with Jupiter. Then Saturn is 
stronger than Rahu, because he is with 2 planets and Rahu is only with one 
planet. So Saturn becomes the primary lord of Aq. 
(2) We find how many of the following planets conjoin/aspect a planet: (1) Jupiter, 
(2) Mercury, and, (3) dispositor. A planet conjoined/aspected by more of these 3 
planets is stronger. We must use rasi aspects here. Suppose Saturn is in Ge with 
Mercury, Rahu is in Ar, Mars is in Le, Jupiter is in Ta. Saturn is conjoined by 
Mercury and his dispositor (who is Mercury again). His count is 2. Rahu in Ar is 
aspected by Mars, his dispositor, from Le. Neither Jupiter nor Mercury aspects or 
conjoins Rahu. So Rahu’s count of 1 loses to Saturn’s count of 2 and Saturn is 
the stronger planet. He becomes the lord of Aq. 
(3) If one planet is exalted and the other not, then the exalted planet is stronger. 
Suppose Saturn is in Li and Rahu is in Cn, with the same number of planets. 
Suppose we have a tie after step (2). Then we note that Saturn is exalted in Li 
and declare him as the stronger planet. He becomes the primary lord of Aq. 
(4) If we have a tie after (3), we consider the natural strength of the rasi containing 
the planet. Dual rasis are stronger than fixed rasis and fixed rasis are stronger 
than movable rasis. Suppose Mars is in Ge and Ketu is in Aq and we have a tie 
between them after step (3). Then we declare Mars as the stronger planet and the 
primary lord of Sc, because he is in a dual rasi and Ketu is in a fixed rasi. 
(5) (a) When finding dasa duration: If we have a tie after (4), we take the planet 
giving a larger length for dasa. Supose Saturn is in Ge and Rahu is in Vi and 
suppose we have a tie after (4). Suppose we want to find the stronger lord for 

=== PAGE 215 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
203 
 
 
 
Narayana dasa. Rahu in Vi gives 5 years and Saturn in Ge gives 8 years53. So 
Saturn is used instead of Rahu. 
(b) When finding the lord for arudha padas etc: If we have a tie after (4), we take 
the planet that is more advanced in its rasi. We measure the advancement of 
Rahu and Ketu from the end of the rasi. Suppose Mars is at 23Li17 and Ketu is at 
5Cn54. Suppose we have a tie after (4). Advancement of Mars in Li is 23°17'. 
Advancement of Ketu from the end of Cn is 30° – 5°54' = 24°6'. Because Ketu is 
more advanced, Ketu is stronger than Mars and becomes the primary lord of Sc. 
 
Exercise 25: Find the primary lord of Aq and Sc in Chart 12 for the purpose of 
arudha padas. 
 
15.5.2 
Stronger Rasi 
 
When computing rasi dasas, we sometimes need to find the strongest rasi out of 2 or 
3 or 4 rasis. In this book, we will mainly use Narayana dasa and we will only need to 
compare the strengths of 2 rasis. To conclude that a rasi is stronger than another rasi 
for the purpose of rasi dasas, we use the following rules. We use the same rules for 
finding the stronger rasi owned by a planet, when computing its graha arudha. We go 
from one rule to the next only if there is no winner after the rule. When we have a 
winner, we stop and do not go to the next rule. 
 
(1) If one rasi contains more planets than the other rasi, then it is stronger. Suppose 
we are comparing the strengths of Ar and Li. Suppose Ar contains Saturn and 
Jupiter and Li contains Venus. Then Ar is stronger, as it contains more planets. 
(2) We find how many of the following planets occupy/aspect a rasi: (1) Jupiter, (2) 
Mercury, and, (3) the rasi’s lord. A rasi occupied/aspected by more of these 3 
planets is stronger. We must use rasi aspects here. Suppose we are compring the 
strengths of Ar and Li. Suppose Jupiter is in Ar, Mercury and Venus are in Ta 
and Mars is in Vi. Then Ar is occupied by Jupiter and not by the other two 
(Mercury and lord Mars). Its count is 1. Li is aspected by two (Mercury and lord 
                                                 
53 We will learn the computation of dasa years in Narayana dasa later. 

=== PAGE 216 ===
 
 
 
 204 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Venus) and only Jupiter doesn’t aspect it (we are using rasi aspects). So Li’s 
count of 2 beats Ar’s count of 1 and Li is stronger than Ar. 
(3) If one rasi contains an exalted planet and the other does not, then the former rasi 
is stronger. Suppose we are compring the strengths of Ar and Li. Suppose Saturn 
and Mercury are in Li and Jupiter and Venus are in Ar. Suppose we have a tie 
between Ar and Li after rule (2). Then we note that Saturn is exalted in Li and 
declare Li as the stronger rasi. 
(4) A rasi whose lord is in a rasi with a different oddity (odd/even) is stronger than a 
rasi whose lord is in a rasi with the same oddity. Suppose we are compring the 
strengths of Ar and Li. Suppose we have a tie after rule (3). Suppose Venus is in 
Cn, an even rasi and Mars is in Le, an odd rasi. Both Ar and Li are odd rasis. 
Because the lord of Li is in an even rasi (i.e. a rasi with a different oddity) and 
the lord of Ar is in an odd rasi (i.e. a rasi with the same oddity), Li is stronger.  
NOTE: If we have a tie upto rule (3) when finding the stronger rasi owned by a 
planet for computing its graha arudha, this rule will surely resolve the tie, 
because the two rasis owned by each planet have a different oddity. So one of 
them will have the lord in a rasi with a different oddity. 
(5) If we have a tie after rule (4), we use the natural strength of rasis. Dual rasis are 
stronger than fixed rasis and fixed rasis are stronger than movable rasis. This rule 
is not useful in Narayana dasa, because we always compare a rasi and the 7th 
from it. If a rasi is dual/fixed/movable, the 7th from it is also of the same type. 
However, this rule is useful in some other dasas. 
(6) If we have a tie after rule (5), we look at the longitudes of the lords of the two 
rasis. We measure the advancement of each planet from the beginning of the rasi 
occupied by it (from the end of the rasi in the case of Rahu and Ketu) and 
compare them. The rasi owned by the planet with the higher advancement is 
stronger. Suppose we are comparing the strengths of Ar and Li. Suppose we have 
a tie after rule (5). Suppose Mars is at 23Ge17 and Venus is at 19Le51. 
Advancement of Mars (lord of Ar) in his rasi is 23°17'. Advancement of Venus 
(lord of Li) in his rasi is 19°51'. Because Mars is more advanced, his Ar is 
stronger than Li. 
NOTE: In the case of Aq and Sc, we use the stronger lord. For Rahu and Ketu, 
advancement in rasi is measured from the end of the rasi. If Rahu is at 9Sc34, his 
advancement in Sc is 30° – 9°34' = 20°26'. 
 

=== PAGE 217 ===
 
 
 
Part 1: Chart Analysis 
205 
 
 
 
Exercise 26: Consider Chart 12. Identify the stronger rasi from each pair below: 
(1) Ar & Li, (2) Ta & Sc, (3) Ge & Sg, (4) Cn & Cp, (5) Le & Aq, and, (6) Vi & Pi. 
 
Warning: The above rules are too general. One should understand the meaning of 
each rule and adapt based on the situation. For example, aspect of Mercury, Jupiter 
and lord is important for Narayana dasa and other phalita dasas. In ayur dasas that 
show longevity, aspect of luminaries (Sun and Moon) are important. Aspect of all 
other planets is equally important. There is no significance for the aspect of lord. In 
dasas based on AK (e.g. Atmakaraka kendradi graha/rasi dasas), the sign containing 
AK is stronger than any other rasi. After we check for the aspects of Mercury, Jupiter 
and rasi lord, we should look at the placement of rasi lord from AK. A rasi who lord 
is in a quadrant from AK is stronger than a rasi whose lord is in a panaphara from 
AK. These rules, however, are not applicable to all dasas. 
 
15.6 Anwers to Exercises 
 
Exercise 24: 
 
Sun is in “Sabhaa” avastha and his strength is “Cheshta”. His results are “helps 
others, possesses wealth, gems and lands, virtuous, very strong, affectionate and 
kind”. They are given in full. 
 
Mars is in “Nidraa” avastha and his strength is “Drishti”. His results are “angry, 
unintelligent, poor, wicked, fallen from the virtuous path, sick” and they are given to 
a medium degree. 
 
Jupiter is in “Aagama” avastha and his strength is “Cheshta”. His results are “many 
conveyances, comforts, honors, servants, happiness from progeny, knowledge, 
friends, learning and noble path” and they are given in full. 
 
Exercise 25: 
 
Rahu is alone and Saturn is alone. We have a tie after rule (1). Saturn is aspected by 
Mercury and not aspected/conjoined by Jupiter and his dispositor (Jupiter again). 
Rahu is aspected by Venus (his dispositor) and not aspected by Mercury and Jupiter. 
Both have a count of one and we have a tie after rule (2). Neither Saturn nor Rahu is 

=== PAGE 218 ===
 
 
 
 206 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
exalted after rule (3). Now we use rule (4). Saturn is in a dual rasi and Rahu is in a 
movable rasi. So Saturn is stronger and he becomes the primary lord of Aq. 
 
Mars is in Sc and Ketu is elsewhere (in Ar). So we don’t even have to go through the 
rules to find the stronger planet. We use the “basic rule” and declare Ketu as the 
primary lord of Sc. 
 
Exercise 26: 
 
(1) Ar and Li have one planet each. There is a tie in rule (1). Ar is aspected by 
Jupiter & lord Mars. Li is aspected only by lord Venus. Ar is stronger than Li, 
from rule (2). 
(2) Sc has 2 planets and Ta has 1. Sc is stronger than Ta, from rule (1). 
(3) Sg has 2 planets and Ge is empty. Sg is stronger than Ta, from rule (1). 
(4) Cp has 1 planet and Cn is empty. Cp is stronger than Cn, from rule (1). 
(5) Le and Aq are empty. There is a tie after rule (1). Le is not aspected by any of 
Jupiter, Mercury and lord Sun. Aq is aspected by co-lord Rahu (though Saturn is 
the primary/stronger lord, Rahu’s aspect also counts). Aq is stronger than Le, 
from rule (2). 
(6) Pi has 1 planet and Vi is empty. Pi is stronger than Vi, from rule (1). 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 219 ===
 
 
 
Part 2:  Dasa Analysis 
 
 
One unique feature of Vedic astrology is its concept of “dasa” 
systems. Dasa means “a period”. One’s lifetime is divided into 
several periods, sub-periods, sub-sub-periods and so on. These 
are ruled by different planets or rasis. Planets and rasis give 
their results in their respective periods and sub-periods. Each 
dasa system has a specific use. The nature of results given by 
planets and rasis in their respective periods and sub-periods 
depends on the dasa system being used. 
 
There are many classifications of dasa systems: 
 
(1) 
Nakshatra dasas and Rasi dasas: Nakshatra dasas are 
based on Moon’s nakshatra (constellation). Rasi dasas are 
based on rasis occupied by planets and dasas are owned 
by rasis in rasi dasas. 
 
(2) 
Phalita dasas and Ayur dasas: Phalita means results and 
ayur means longevity. Phalita dasas are used for general 
results and ayur dasas are used for predicting death. 

=== PAGE 220 ===
 
 
 
 208 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
 
 
Hundreds of dasa systems were enumerated by the seers of 
Vedic astrologey. Specific uses of these dasa systems weren’t 
clearly mentioned in classics. These are hidden in remote 
corners of India as family secrets. 
 
In this part, the use of the following dasa systems is explained 
in detail: 
 
• Vimsottari dasa: 
Nakshatra dasa (phalita/ayur) 
• Ashtottari dasa: 
Nakshatra dasa (ayur/phalita) 
• Narayana dasa: 
Rasi dasa (phalita - general) 
• Lagna Kendradi 
Rasi dasa: 
Rasi dasa (phalita – material fortune) 
• Sudasa: 
Rasi dasa (phalita – material fortune) 
• Drigdasa: 
Rasi dasa (phalita – spirituality) 
• Niryaana 
Shoola dasa: 
Rasi dasa (ayur) 
• Shoola dasa: 
Rasi dasa (ayur) 
• Kalachakra dasa: Nakshatra dasa (phalita) 
 
Sudarsana Chakra dasa is one of the most important dasas 
mentioned by Parasara. However, for reasons that will become 
clear later, we will learn it in the part “Tajaka Analysis”. 
 

=== PAGE 221 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
209 
 
 
 
16.  Vimsottari Dasa 
 
16.1 Introduction 
 
Vimsottari dasa is the most popular dasa system among Vedic astrologers of today. 
Sage Parasara mentions in “Brihat Parasara Hora Sastram” that this dasa system is 
the most suitable dasa system in Kali yuga. 
 
Vimsottari means 120. Vimsottari dasa is a dasa system where the total duration of 
the dasa cycle is 120 years. Dasas of different planets are for different number of 
years, but the sum of all dasas is 120 years. 
 
In Kali yuga, paramaayush (maximum longevity) of human beings is supposed to be 
120 years. Consequently, Vimsottari dasa is the most suitable dasa in Kali yuga. 
 
Dasas are reckoned here based on the constellation occupied by Moon. There are 
other variations that are more applicable in some cases. Many contemporary Vedic 
astrologers ignore these variations and always reckon dasas from the lord of the 
constellation occupied by Moon. However, this may not result in the best predictions 
always. In this book, we will look at some of the variations. 
 
One’s life is divided into dasas – periods – ruled by the nine planets. A dasa is also 
called a “mahadasa” (mahadasa = master period). Each mahadasa is again divided 
into 9 sub-periods ruled by 9 planets. These sub-periods in mahadasas are called 
“antardasas”. We can divide further. Sub-periods in antardasas are called 
“pratyantardasas”. Sub-periods in pratyantardasas are called “sookshma-antardasas” 
or simply sookshma dasas. Sub-periods in sookshma dasas are called “prana-
antardasas” or simply prana dasas. Sub-periods in prana dasas are called “deha-
antardasas”. In this book, we will denote mahadasa with MD, antardasa with AD, 
pratyantardasa with PD, sookshma dasa with SD, prana-antardasa with PAD and 
deha-antardasa with DAD. 
 

=== PAGE 222 ===
 
 
 
 210 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
16.2 Dasa Computation 
 
The lengths of the dasas (periods) of various planets are given in Table 38. The order 
of dasas is also as indicated in that table. For example, let us say that the first dasa is 
Sun’s. It will be of 6 years. Then 10 years of Moon dasa will follow. Then 7 years of 
Mars dasa will follow. And so on. At the end of the table, we come back to the first 
entry. For example, let us say that the first dasa is of Jupiter. Then the order of dasas 
will be Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Ketu, Venus, Sun (go back), Moon, Mars and Rahu. 
 
Table 38: Vimsottari Dasa Lengths 
Planet 
Dasa length (in years) 
Sun 
6 
Moon 
10 
Mars 
7 
Rahu 
18 
Jupiter 
16 
Saturn 
19 
Mercury 
17 
Ketu 
7 
Venus 
20 
Total 
120 
 
In this manner, we can find the order of dasas and dasa lengths, given the first dasa. 
 
For computing Vimsottari dasa, use the following steps: 
 
(1) Find the constellation occupied by Moon. 
 
(2) Find the advancement of Moon in the constellation. 
 
(3) Find the part of the constellation that is yet to be traversed by Moon, as a fraction 
of the length of the constellation. [NOTE: Length of each constellation is 13°20'.] 
 
(4) First dasa will belong to the lord of the constellation. 
 
(5) Find the sequence of dasas and dasa lengths from Table 38. 

=== PAGE 223 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
211 
 
 
 
 
(6) Multiply the length of the first dasa by the fraction found in step (3). Only this 
amount in the first dasa is left at birth. The rest was over before birth. 
 
Controversy: Dasa length of each planet was given in years in Table 38. For 
example, Sun dasa is for 6 years. However, what is the meaning of “a year” here? Do 
we mean the normal solar year, i.e. 365.2425 days? Or, do we mean a savana year of 
360 days that is used when finding the running year for calculating varsha bala (year 
strength) in shadbalas? Or, do we mean a period in which Moon traverses through 
360 constellations? Or, do we mean a period of 360 tithis (luni-solar days)? Most 
scholars, including this author’s guru Pt. Sanjay Rath, use solar years. However, this 
author prefers savana years based on the teachings of his father. Savana years will be 
used with nakshatra dasas in all the calculations given in this book. This is not meant 
to be a recommendation. 
 
Example 50: Let us say someone was born at 5:50 am on 2000 April 28 (time zone: 
4 hours west of GMT). Moon is at 2°23' in Aq at the time of birth. 
(1) This is in the 3rd pada (quarter) of Dhanishtha constellation. Dhanishtha 
constellation starts at 23°20' in Cp and ends at 6°40' in Aq. 
(2) Moon’s advancement in Dhanishtha = 2Aq23 – 23Cp20 = 32°23' – 23°20' = 9°3'. 
(3) The total length of the constellation is 13°20'. The length yet to be traversed in 
this constellation as a fraction of the total constellation length = (13°20' – 
9°3')/13°20' = 4°17'/13°20' = (4x60+17)/(13x60+20) = 257/800 = 0.32125. This 
is the fraction of the constellation yet to be traversed by Moon. 
(4) First dasa belongs to the lord of Dhanishtha. It is Mars. 
(5) Let us start from Mars. From Table 38, dasa sequence is: Mars (7 years), Rahu 
(18 years), Jupiter (16 years), Saturn (19 years), Mercury (17 years), Ketu (7 
years), Venus (20 years), Sun (6 years), Moon (10 years). 
(6) First dasa needs a correction. Out of 7 years of Mars dasa, the amount left at birth 
= 7 x 0.32125 = 2.24875 years = 2 years 2 months 29 days 33 ghatis. [NOTE: 
Ghati = 1/60th of a day, i.e. 24 minutes.] 
 
The native was born at 5:50 am on 2000 April 28. We can get the end date of Mars 
dasa by adding 2 years 2 months 29 days 33 ghatis to it. We get about 7 pm on 2002 
July 15. Mars dasa will be over then and Rahu dasa will start. We get Rahu dasa’s 
end date by adding 18 years to this date. Similarly, we can find the start and end 
dates of all dasas. 

=== PAGE 224 ===
 
 
 
 212 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
16.3 Antardasa Computation 
 
Each mahadasa is divided into 9 antardasas. Take the planet ruling the mahadasa. 
First antardasa will belong to the same planet and antardasas go in the same 
sequence as dasas. The complete length of the mahadasa is ditributed among 
antardasas in the ratio of mahadasa years of planets. 
 
For example, let us take Venus dasa of the native of Example 50. Venus dasa runs 
for 20 years. Antardasas in Venus dasa start from Venus and go in the order given in 
Table 38. So antardasa order in Venus dasa is — Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, Rahu, 
Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury and Ketu. Length of Venus antardasa is 20/120 of the total 
dasa length, i.e. 20x20/120 years = 3 years and 4 months. Length of Sun antardasa is 
6/120 of the total dasa length, i.e. 20x6/120 years = 1 year. Length of Moon 
antardasa is 10/120 of the total dasa length, i.e. 20x10/120 years = 1 year and 8 
months. Length of Mars antardasa is 7/120 of the total dasa length, i.e. 20x7/120 
years = 1 year and 2 months. In this manner, we proportionally divide the period of a 
mahadasa into 9 antardasas. 
 
We use the same procedure to divide each antardasa into 9 pratyantardasas, each 
pratyantardasa into 9 sookshma dasas and so on. 
 
In the case of the first dasa, we don’t divide the remainder at birth (2.24875 years of 
Mars dasa remainder, for example, in Example 50) into 9 antardasas. Instead, we 
divide the complete duration of the first dasa (7 years of Mars dasa, for example, in 
Example 50) into 9 antardasas. So a few antardasas may be over before birth and 
only a few antardasas may be left at birth. 
 
From now on, it will be assumed that the reader is familiar with the computations. If 
the reader does not have any software and needs to compute dasas by hand, he or she 
should practice with many charts. 
 
16.4 Vimsottari Dasa Variations 
 
16.4.1 
Computation of Variations 

=== PAGE 225 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
213 
 
 
 
 
We always compute the fraction left at birth in the first dasa based on the fraction of 
the constellation occupied by Moon, that is yet to be traversed by Moon. However, 
we need not always take the lord of Moon’s constellation as the planet ruling the first 
dasa. We can take the lord of the 4th, 5th or 8th constellation from Moon’s 
constellation to start the first dasa. These 3 stars are called kshema, utpanna and 
adhana stars. 
 
Example 51: Let us consider the data of Example 50 and calculate Vimsottari dasa 
from 4th, 5th and 8th stars. 
 
The 4th star from Moon’s star is Uttarabhadrapada owned by Saturn. Using the 4th 
star to start Vimsottari dasa, we get the dasa sequence as — Saturn, Mercury, Ketu, 
Venus etc. Dasa lengths are the same as before, but the part of Saturn dasa left at 
birth is 19 x 0.32125 = 6.10375 years. Then Mercury dasa is for 17 years, Ketu dasa 
is for 7 years and so on. 
 
In the same example, the 5th star from Moon’s star is Revathi owned by Mercury. 
Using the 5th star to start Vimsottari dasa, we get the dasa sequence as — Mercury, 
Ketu, Venus, Sun etc. Mercury dasa left at birth is 17 x 0.32125 = 5.46125 years. 
Then Ketu dasa is for 7 years, Venus dasa is for 20 years and so on. 
 
In the same example, the 8th star from Moon’s star is Krittika owned by Sun. Using 
the 8th star to start Vimsottari dasa, we get the dasa sequence as — Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Rahu etc. Sun dasa left at birth is 6 x 0.32125 = 1.9275 years. Then Moon dasa is for 
10 years, Mars dasa is for 7 years and so on. 
 
16.4.2 
Dasa from Lagna 
 
Some authorities have also recommended Vimsottari dasa from the longitude of 
lagna instead of Moon. In practice, this will give better results only when lagna is 
considerably more powerful than Moon. 
 
16.5 Using Vimsottari Dasa 
16.5.1 
General Principles 

=== PAGE 226 ===
 
 
 
 214 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Vimsottari dasa is a very general phalita dasa that can also be used as an ayur dasa. 
All kinds of general results can be seen from it. A planet gives the results promised 
by its positions in various divisional charts. Here are just a few examples: 
 
(1) Period of the 5th lord in D-7 can give a child. 
(2) Period of the 8th lord in rasi chart can give some troubles and frustration. 
(3) Period of a planet exalted in GL in D-10 can give power and authority in career. 
(4) Period of an exalted planet in the 12th from AK in D-9 can give serious thoughts 
related to spiritual liberation. 
(5) Period of the 7th lord in D-9 can give marriage. 
(6) Period of a planet with Rahu in the 9th in D-4 can give foreign residence. 
(7) Period of an exalted planet aspecting HL from the 11th from AL in rasi chart can 
give a lot of wealth. 
(8) Period of a planet joined by Moon and Saturn in the 8th house in D-30 may give 
serious psychological problems and suicidal tendencies. 
(9) Period of a well-disposed planet aspecting A3 in D-10 may make one write some 
books. 
 
These are just a few examples. One should look at various divisional charts and 
figure out the results indicated by different planets. Each planet gives the results 
indicated by it in its dasas and antardasas. When analyzing antardasas, we can take 
the dasa lord as a temporary lagna and analyze the charts. 
 
16.5.2 
Using Dasa Variations 
 
If the sign containing the 5th star from Moon is stronger than the sign containing 
Moon, Vimsottari dasa started from utpanna star may be preferred for general 
results. If the 5th star spans across 2 signs, take the sign containing the same quarter 
as occupied by Moon in birthstar. If Moon is in Makha 3rd pada (quarter), for 
example, 5th star is Chitra and it starts in Virgo and ends in Libra. So we should take 
the 3rd quarter of Chitra and we then get Libra. So Leo’s strength should be 
compared to Libra’s. 
 
How do we know which sign is stronger? There are no clear guidelines in the 
literature to compare the strengths. A sign aspected by Jupiter and occupied by more 
planets may be taken to be stronger. We can also use known events to see which dasa 
is working better. 

=== PAGE 227 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
215 
 
 
 
 
Vimsottari dasa started from the 4th and 8th stars is used mainly for the purposes of 
longevity determination. Look at the signs containing Moon and these 2 stars and 
find the strongest sign. Here a sign aspected by marakas and malefics becomes 
stronger. Start Vimsottari dasa from the star in the strongest of these 3 signs and use 
it in longevity analysis. If Moon is in Makha 3rd pada in Leo, 4th and 8th stars are 
Hasta (Virgo) and Anuradha (Scorpio). We should compare the strengths of Leo, 
Virgo and Scorpio. 
 
16.5.3 
Rath’s “Tripod of Life” Principle 
 
Sun, Moon and lagna form the “tripod of life”. Parasara clearly said that we should 
analyze all charts with respect to the positions of Sun, Moon and lagna. He advised 
drawing Sudarsana chakra with the innermost chakra representing the houses with 
respect to lagna (body), next chakra representing the houses with respect to Moon 
(mind) and the outermost chakra representing the houses with respect to Sun (soul). 
 
The results experienced due to soul (Sun) last long and change slowly. The results 
experienced due to mind (Moon) last shorter and change fast. The results 
experienced due to body (lagna) change even faster. 
 
Sun is an important reference point in rasi and divisional charts when judging the 
results of a mahadasa. Moon is an important reference point when judging the results 
of an antardasa. Lagna is an important reference point when judging the results of a 
pratyantardasa. 
 
If a planet takes part in a Ravi yoga (solar combination), it gives the results of the 
yoga in its mahadasa. If a planet takes part in a Chandra Yoga (lunar combination), it 
gives the results of the yoga in its antardasas. If a planet takes part in other yogas 
(e.g. a Raja Yoga), it gives the results of the yoga primarily in its pratyantardasas. 
 
In addition, dasa lord can be taken as a reference point when interpreting antardasas. 
 
16.6 Practical Examples 
16.6.1 
As A Phalita Dasa 
 

=== PAGE 228 ===
 
 
 
 216 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 52: Consider the dasamsa chart of Pandit Sanjay Rath, a Vedic astrology 
author and founder of Sri Jagannath Vedic Centre (see Chart 17). Dasamsa shows 
one’s achievements in society. 
Chart 17 
 
 
Just a few days of Rahu dasa were left at birth. Mercury dasa has been running since 
1998. During Mercury dasa, he published a brilliant book “Crux of Vedic Astrology 
– Timing of Events” and he is writing more books. Why did Mercury give book 
writing? 
 
Dasamsa shows achievements in society and A3 (arudha pada of 3rd house) shows 
the books authored by one. A3 is in Vi here. It has argalas from the 11th from it by 
Venus and Jupiter and that shows saattwik and brilliant traditional knowledge as the 
catalyst bringing gains in his book-writing. Mercury is the significator of writing and 
communication and he has argala on A3 from the 4th from it. This shows that good 
communication skills and scholarship (Mercury) are the basic driving factor in his 
book-writing. 
 

=== PAGE 229 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
217 
 
 
 
In addition to containing A3, Virgo is the 3rd from GL. GL stands for power, 
authority and fame. The 3rd house from GL stands for fame as a communicator. 
Mercury owns and aspects it. In rasi chart, Mercury gives Vesi yoga being in the 2nd 
from Sun. So his dasa should bring the results of Vesi yoga. 
Chart 18 
 
 
For all these reasons, Mercury dasa can bring him book-writing activities and the 
fame that goes with it. He will author many more excellent books. 
 
Example 53: Let us consider the D-7 chart of a lady who had her first child in 
November 1994 and second child in December 1996 (see Chart 18). 
 
Moon is in Sun’s constellation. First dasa belongs to Sun. About 1 year and 3 months 
of Sun dasa was over before birth and the remainder of Sun dasa at birth was about 4 
years and 9 months. Rahu dasa started at the end of 1993. This dasa gave her 
children. Let us explain why Rahu gave children. 
 

=== PAGE 230 ===
 
 
 
 218 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
D-7 chart shows progeny. The 5th house shows children and it is in Aq here. It is 
owned by Saturn and Rahu. If one of the owners occupies the sign, the other owner 
acts as the main owner, according to Parasara. Saturn is in Aq. So Rahu acts as the 
5th lord in this chart. He is in the 11th house of gains, with lagna lord Venus. His 
conjunction with Venus – conjunction of 1st and 5th lords – consists of a raja yoga in 
the house of gains. For these reasons, Rahu can give the happiness of getting a child. 
Antardasas at the time of childbirth belonged to Rahu and Jupiter. Jupiter is the 
naisargika and chara puttra karaka and he is in the 5th house here. 
 
Rahu is the primary 5th lord here. But, after all, Saturn also owns 5th and moreover he 
occupies 5th with Jupiter. He is the strongest planet in 5th. Hence pratyantardasa at 
the time of both the childbirths belonged to Saturn. Pratyantardasa running at the 
time of an event usually belongs to the most important planet influencing the house 
of interest in the divisional chart of interest. 
 
Example 54: Let us consider the rasi chart of Sri Navin Patnaik (see Chart 19). He 
was elected as the Chief Minister of India’s Orissa state in early 2000. 
 
First dasa is of Mars and Mercury dasa started in July 1999. Mercury antardasa in 
Mercury mahadasa was running when he became Orissa’s CM. 
 
Mercury is in Libra. Rajya saham and GL are also in Libra. So Mercury has the 
potential to bring kingdom. 
 
From AL, Mercury is in the 6th house. Upachayas from AL bring gains in status and 
a planet in the 6th from AL can bring an improvement in status. 
 
Let us apply Rath’s “tripod of life” principle. Sun is in Vi. We should judge 
mahadasa from Sun. Where is Mercury w.r.t. Sun? Mercury is Sun’s dispositor and 
he is in the 2nd from Sun. This results in a powerful Vesi yoga. 

=== PAGE 231 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
219 
 
 
 
Chart 19 
 
 
Even taking Moon as the reference, Mercury is 1st lord and he is in a trine. So he is 
favorably placed from Moon also. For this reason, Mercury’s antardasa is a good 
antardasa and there was success in the very first AD of Mercury MD. 
 
Of course, Mercury is a functional benefic in dasamsa, aspects GL and occupies 
rajya pada (A10) in a quadrant from lagna. These factors also contributed to success 
in Mercury dasa. 
 
Example 55: Let us consider the rasi chart of an engineer who came from India to 
USA (see Chart 20). He studied at a reputed institution in India and had a good job at 
a big company in USA. He had a wife and two children. 
 

=== PAGE 232 ===
 
 
 
 220 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Chart 20 
 
 
He had a cruel shock when his wife filed a lawsuit against him in a US court at the 
end of 1995, accusing him of many wrong things that he hadn’t done. She had his 
bank accounts frozen and had him evicted from his house. He was then running 
Jupiter-Moon antardasa (i.e. Jupiter dasa, Moon antardasa) as per Vimsottari dasa. 
This author predicted to him that things would just be fine and he would win the suit 
in Mars antardasa. However, he could not go through with it, surrendered everything 
to his wife, left his excellent job, left his house and kids to his wife and mother-in-
law and went back to India in mid-1996. He returned to USA in 1998 to start fresh 
and started searching for a job. This author’s prediction went wrong because he 
blindly used Vimsottari dasa started from Moon’s star. 
 
Why did Jupiter-Moon antardasa bring such a catastrophe? Why was his life turned 
upside down? Jupiter is an exalted functional benefic in a trine. Moon is an exalted 
functional benefic in a quadrant. Of course, we can give vague reasons to justify 
almost anything, but that’s not the right approach. If we use the right variation of the 
dasa, we don’t have to bend backwards or beat around the bush to explain events. 
 

=== PAGE 233 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
221 
 
 
 
Let us consider utpanna star. Moon is in Rohini. The 5th star Pushyami is in Cancer 
and exalted Jupiter occupies it. Occupied by an exalted planet and owned by another 
exalted planet, Cancer is very strong. It is a tough call in this case, but dasas started 
from Pushyami explain the events better than dasas started from Rohini. 
 
First dasa belongs to Saturn. Venus dasa of 20 years runs from February 1987 to 
October 2006. Venus is lagna lord and he gives Vesi yoga being in the 2nd from Sun. 
So his dasa is good. However, being the 8th lord from AL, he can also give a fall in 
status. 
 
Rahu’s antardasa runs during 1994-1997. As per Rath’s “tripod of life” principle, we 
should give importance to Rahu’s position from Moon. Rahu is in the 8th house from 
Moon and his antardasa is unfavorable. It can bring unexpected troubles and 
frustration. Debilitated Rahu’s rasi aspect on AL can also cast a shadow on one’s 
image and affect one’s status. 
 
Ketu’s pratyantardasa ran during December 1995-February 1996 when a lot of this 
drama unfolded and he was evicted from house with his accounts frozen. That shook 
him up. We should give importance to lagna when judging pratyantardasas. Ketu is 
lagna lord in the 8th house. Again it is a bad period. 
 
Sun’s pratyantardasa was running when he went back to India, leaving everything he 
had behind – including his job at a big company. Sun is the 10th lord and he is 
debilitated in the 12th house, afflicted by Saturn and 8th lord. Moreover Sun is in the 
8th house from AL and that adds to the indications of a fall in status. So Sun’s 
pratyantardasa can bring losses and fall in status. During this pratyantardasa, he gave 
up everything he had and went back to India. 
 
Jupiter is the 8th and 11th lord from Moon. He is in the 3rd from Moon. Jupiter in 3rd 
gives a positive spirit. Jupiter antardasa can inject some energy into his nearly 
destroyed life. He came back to US in Jupiter antardasa. Saturn is an exalted 
yogakaraka from Moon and his antardasa should bring gains again. 
 
16.6.2 
As An Ayur Dasa 
 
We have so far seen examples of Vimsottari dasa used as a phalita dasa. We will 
now see its use as an ayur dasa. 

=== PAGE 234 ===
 
 
 
 222 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Example 56: We will consider John F. Kennedy, Jr’s rasi chart (see Chart 21). He 
passed away on the night of July 16, 1999. 
 
Parasara mentioned that the 3rd and 8th houses are the houses of life and the 2nd and 
7th houses are the houses of death. He said that the 2nd house is particularly a maraka 
(killer) house. Lords and occupants of these houses can kill a native. 
Chart 21 
 
 
Here the 2nd house is Virgo. Its lord Mercury is in mrityu bhaga in the 3rd house. He 
is a strong maraka. Saturn is the 7th lord. He is also Maheswara, being the 8th lord 
from AK Mars. He joins Jupiter, who is Rudra. Saturn is also a strong maraka. Mr. 
Kennedy was running Saturn-Mercury antardasa when he passed away. 
 
Example 57: Let us consider the rasi chart of a lady who committed suicide on April 
6, 1988 (see Chart 22). 
 
Jupiter is the 7th lord here and he is exalted. He is a very strong maraka. Venus is 2nd 
lord in 2nd and he can kill too. 

=== PAGE 235 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
223 
 
 
 
 
Moon is in the 1st quarter of Bharani constellation. The 4th constellation is Mrigasira. 
Because the 1st quarter of Mrigasira is in Taurus, we should take Taurus as the sign 
of 4th star. The 8th star is Aasresha in Cancer. Cancer contains 7th lord Jupiter, a 
maraka. However, it is not aspected by 2nd lord. Taurus, on the other hand, has the 
rasi aspect of both Jupiter and Venus. Aspect of marakas makes a sign stronger. So 
start dasas from the 4th star. 
Chart 22 
 
 
First dasa belongs to Mars and Jupiter-Venus antardasa was running at death. Both 
the planets are marakas. 
 
Example 58: Let us consider the rasi chart of great astrologer Dr. B.V. Raman (see 
Chart 23). He passed away on 20th December 1998, leaving a void in the astrological 
community. 
 
As per Vimsottari dasa reckoned from Moon’s star, he passed away in Venus-Sun 
antardasa. Venus is a maraka being in the 7th house, but he is not a very strong 

=== PAGE 236 ===
 
 
 
 224 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
maraka. Though Sun owns 7th, he is in 6th, i.e. in the 12th from 7th and the 11th from 
8th. The likelihood of Sun killing the native is small. 
 
Who are the strongest marakas in this chart? Certainly, Mercury is the strongest 
maraka. He owns 8th and occupies 7th. Malefics in the 2nd house are strong marakas. 
So Rahu in the 2nd is also a maraka. Mars is also a maraka, being the 3rd lord in 7th. 
 
Chart 23 
 
 
Let us consider the variations of Vimsottari dasa based on 4th and 8th stars. The 4th 
star is Pushyami in Cancer. The 8th star is Uttaraphalguni and its 1st quarter is in Leo. 
Because Leo is the strongest sign, we can start dasas from Sun who owns 
Uttaraphalguni (8th star from Moon’s star). 
 
Starting Vimsottari dasa from the 8th star, we can see that Mercury-Rahu antardasa 
was running in December 1998. Killership of both the planets has already been 
addressed. 
 

=== PAGE 237 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
225 
 
 
 
16.7 Conclusion 
 
In this chapter, Vimsottari dasa and its variations are explained and their use is 
demonstrated. Use of Vimsottari dasa as a phalita dasa as well as an ayur dasa is 
demonstrated. As this is the most common constellation-based dasa system, readers 
should master its use through practical experience. 
 
Though many people limit themselves to Vimsottari dasa started from the birthstar, 
one is advised to use the variations mentioned in this chapter for the best results. 
 
If all the quadrants from the stronger of lagna and Moon are occupied by planets, 
“Kendradi Graha Dasa” is more appropriate than Vimsottari dasa. Results from 
Vimsottari dasa may not be very good in such cases. 
 
In addition, it should be noted that the error in the start/end dates of dasas have an 
error of approximately m.n/4 days, if there is an error of m minutes in birthtime and 
the complete duration of the first dasa is n years. 
 
For example, if the first dasa belongs to Venus, then n = 20. So an error of 5 minutes 
in the birthtime results in an error of 5x20/4 = 25 days in dasas (this is approximate). 
Considering this, we cannot use low level sub-periods of Vimsottari dasa (like 
sookshma dasas) confidently, unless we rectify the birthtime. 
 
It is a good idea to allow a margin of error when we examine the dates on which 
dasas start and end. 
 
 

=== PAGE 238 ===
 
 
 
 226 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
17.  Ashtottari Dasa 
 
17.1 Introduction 
 
Ashtottari dasa is perhaps the most popular dasa system in India after Vimsottari 
dasa. Sage Parasara listed it as a conditional dasa applicable only in some charts. The 
conditions for its applicability are highly controversial.  
 
In this system, the sum of all dasas is 108 years. Ashtottari means “ashtottara sata”, 
i.e. one hundred and eight. Because poornaayush (full life) of a man is 108 years, 
some scholars have suggested that ashtottari dasa is best used as an ayur dasa, i.e. a 
dasa that shows longevity. 
 
Some other scholars suggest that Ashtottari dasa can be used as a phalita dasa. 
Because only chara karakas, i.e. Rahu and the seven planets, have dasas under the 
Ashtottari dasa scheme, it may also be suggested that it shows events related to 
sustenance, achievements, raja yogas and moksha (just like chara karakas do). Some 
people, however, prefer to see all matters in Ashtottari dasa. 
 
17.2 Computation 
 
17.2.1 
Dasas 
 
Order of dasas and the length of dasas is as shown in Table 39. Each planet covers an 
arc of either 53°20' (4 nakshatras) or 40°0' (3 nakshatras) in the zodiac, as shown in 
that table. 
 
We note natal Moon’s longitude and see which of the eight arcs it belongs to. The 
planet ruling the arc will rule the first dasa. The fraction of the arc that is yet to be 
traversed by natal Moon is calculated and the same fraction of the dasa length of the 
first dasa lord is left at birth. After that, dasas will come in the order shown in the 
table and the length of a planet’s dasa is the full dasa length given in the table. After 
Venus, we come back to Sun at the beginning of the table. 

=== PAGE 239 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
227 
 
 
 
Table 39: Ashtottari Dasa Table 
# 
Nakshatra 
Arc covered by 
planet 
Arc 
length 
Planet 
Dasa 
Length 
1 
Aardra 
Punarvasu 
Pushyami 
Aasresha 
66°40' – 120°0' 
53°20' 
Sun 
6 years 
2 
Makha 
P.Phalguni 
U.Phalguni 
120°0' – 160°0' 
40°0' 
Moon 
15 years 
3 
Hasta 
Chitra 
Swaati 
Visaakha 
160°0' – 213°20' 
53°20' 
Mars 
8 years 
4 
Anooradha 
Jyeshtha 
Moola 
213°20' – 253°20' 
40°0' 
Mercury 
17 years 
5 
P.Ashadha 
U.Ashadha 
Sravanam 
253°20' – 293°20' 
40°0' 
Saturn 
10 years 
6 
Dhanishtha 
Satabhisha 
P.Bhadra 
293°20' – 333°20' 
40°0' 
Jupiter 
19 years 
7 
U.Bhadra 
Revati 
Aswini 
Bharani 
333°20' – 386°40' 
(333°20' – 26°40') 
53°20' 
Rahu 
12 years 
8 
Krittika 
Rohini 
Mrigasira 
26°40' – 66°40' 
40°0' 
Venus 
21 years 
 
Example 59: Suppose Moon is at 24° in Leo. That is equivalent to 24°0' + 120°0'  = 
144°0'. We see that 144° is between 120°0' and 160°0'. So it is in the 2nd arc of Table 
39, which is ruled by Moon. The full dasa length is 15 years. Here we have to find 
the fraction of the arc that is yet to be traversed. The arc starts at 120°0' and ends at 
160°0'. So the part of the arc that is yet to be traversed by Moon is (160°0' – 144°0') 

=== PAGE 240 ===
 
 
 
 228 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
= 16°. As a fraction of the arc length (40°), this is 16°/40° = 0.4. The same fraction 
of the full dasa length of Moon is 15 x 0.4 = 6 years. The native will run Moon dasa 
of 6 years from his birth. Then 8 years of Mars dasa will run. Then 17 years of 
Mercury dasa will run. Then 10 years of Saturn dasa will run. And so on. 
 
NOTE: One has to be careful with the calculation if the first dasa is Rahu dasa. The 
arc ruled by Rahu starts at 333°20' and ends at 26°40'. The ending longitude 26°40' is 
equivalent to 386°40' and we should use either 26°40' or 386°40' based on Moon’s 
longitude. For example, if Moon is at 10º in Aries, then the part of the arc that is yet 
to be traversed is 26°40' – 10° = 16°40'. If Moon is at 20º in Pisces, i.e. at 350º, then 
the part of the arc that is yet to be traversed is 386°40' – 350° = 36°40'. 
 
17.2.2 
Antardasas 
 
The first antardasa belongs to the planet that comes in the table after the dasa lord. 
Then antardasas go in the same order as dasas and the last antardasa belongs to dasa 
lord. For example, antardasas in Jupiter dasa go as: Rahu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Mercury, Saturn and Jupiter. Antardasas in Moon dasa go as: Mars, Mercury, Saturn, 
Jupiter, Rahu, Venus, Sun and Moon. 
 
The length of a dasa is divided into eight antardasas in the ratio of the dasa lengths. 
For example, Sun dasa is of 6 years. Moon antardasa in Sun dasa is of 6 x 15/108 = 
0.8333 year = 10 months. Mars antardasa in Sun dasa is of 6 x 8/108 = 0.4444 year = 
5 months 10 days. Mercury antardasa in Sun dasa is of 6 x 17/108 = 0.9444 years = 
11 months 10 days. And so on. 
 
17.2.3 
Application 
 
There are three different views on the applicability of Ashtottari dasa: 
 
(1) Ashtottari dasa is applicable in all charts. 
(2) Ashtottari dasa is applicable if Rahu, who is not in lagna, is in a quadrant or a 
trine from lagna lord. 
(3) Ashtottari dasa is applicable for daytime births in Krishna paksha (darker 
fortnight) and night time births in Sukla paksha (brighter fortnight). 
 

=== PAGE 241 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
229 
 
 
 
Some people use Ashtottari dasa as an ayur dasa and see longevity in it. Some other 
people use Ashtottari dasa as a phalita dasa. Because only chara karakas, i.e. Rahu 
and the seven planets, have dasas under the Ashtottari dasa scheme, it may also be 
suggested that it shows events related to sustenance, achievements, raja yogas and 
moksha (just like chara karakas do). Some people, however, prefer to see all matters 
in Ashtottari dasa. 
 
17.3 Examples 
 
Example 60: We saw the chart of great astrologer Dr. B.V. Raman in Example 58. 
We noted that his sad demise on 20th December 1998 makes better sense with 
Vimsottari dasa started from the 8th nakshatra from Moon’s nakshatra than 
Vimsottari dasa started from Moon’s nakshatra. As per the former, he passed away in 
Mercury-Rahu antardasa. Mercury is the 8th lord in the 7th house of death and Rahu is 
a malefic in the 2nd house of death. 
 
One may compute Ashtottari dasa for the birthdata given in Chart 23 and find that 
Rahu-Mercury antardasa was running at the time of his death. For reasons already 
explained, Rahu and Mercury are the strongest marakas in this chart. It is significant 
that the same planets gave death in both dasas. 
 
Example 61: Let us consider the assassination of Indira Gandhi. Her birthdata and 
assassination data are given in Example 110 (in a later chapter). Her rasi chart is 
given in Chart 61. 
 
One may calculate Ashtottari dasa for her and find that Moon dasa ran from 1980-
1995. Saturn antardasa was running at the time of her assassination. 
 
Saturn is the 7th lord in lagna and Moon is in the 7th house. They are the only planets 
strongly associated with the 7th house of death. They can give death. 
 
Example 62: Let us consider Sri P.V. Narasimha Rao’s rasi chart given in Chart 6. 
He held important ministerial berths in Indian government during 1980-1989 and he 
was India’s Prime Minister during 1991-1996. 
 

=== PAGE 242 ===
 
 
 
 230 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
If one calculates his Ashtottari dasa, one will find that Mercury dasa ran during 
1981-1997. Mercury is lagna lord and he occupies an own sign. He is in the the 7th 
house from AL and GL and certainly promises power. The planet bringing a link 
between lagna and GL by way of aspect, ownership and occupancy brings power. 
Mercury is lagna lord and he has a rasi aspect on both lagna and GL. He can give 
power. 
 
Moreover, Sri Rao’s chart has a powerful Vipareeta Raja yoga (VRY) between 3rd 
and 8th lord Mars and 12th lord Sun, who are within a 17' from each other. If the 
planets involved in VRY have a conjunction or rasi aspect with lagna lord, then VRY 
can give permanent results and the power is transferred to lagna lord. Here Mercury 
is the dispositor of Mars and Sun and joins them in his own rasi. He has 7 rekhas in 
BAV and his rasi Gemini has 34 rekhas in SAV. Mercury is in Uttamamsa. For all 
these reasons, Mercury is a great yoga karaka. So his dasa (1981-1997) was excellent 
from Sri Rao. 
 
17.4 Conclusion 
 
Ashtottari dasa is a popular dasa, but its applicability as well as application are 
controversial. Readers should keep this in mind and keep their minds open to 
alternative views. What is taught in this book is not the final truth. Of course, this 
applies to everything taught in this book, but it is especially applicable to this 
chapter. 
 
 

=== PAGE 243 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
231 
 
 
 
18.  Narayana Dasa 
 
18.1 Introduction 
 
Narayana dasa is a very important rasi dasa. It is a phalita dasa. It shows general 
results. Narayana dasa is computed differently for different divisional charts and we 
can use Narayana dasa of a divisional chart to predict matters related to that 
divisional chart. 
 
Narayana dasa is based on the progression of lagna in one’s life. As one dasa ends 
and another starts, one rasi stops being the progressed lagna and another rasi 
becomes one’s progressed lagna. Using the progressed lagna as the reference, we 
find out the events that happen in that dasa. Thus we get twelve charts for each 
person, with each chart applicable in one dasa. 
 
This is a very versatile dasa system and readers sould pay attention to the details of 
calculation. 
 
18.2 Computation 
 
18.2.1 
Dasa Progression 
 
Dasas start from lagna or the 7th house, whichever is stronger. We use the rules of 
strength explained in the chapter “Strength of Planets and Rasis”. Let us denote the 
stronger of lagna and 7th house by the expression “dasa seed”. 
 
Movable signs are governed by Brahma. Fixed signs are governed by Shiva. Dual 
signs are govenred by Vishnu.54 Brahma is associated with the regular movement of 
1st, 2nd, 3rd etc. Vishnu is associated with the trinal movement, i.e. 1st, 5th, 9th, then 
10th, 2nd, 6th and so on. We cover the trines from dasa seed first, go to another 
                                                 
54 Brahma is the God of creation. Vishnu is the God of sustenance. Shiva is the God of destruction. 
Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva are together known as “Trimurthis” (the “Trinity of Gods”). 

=== PAGE 244 ===
 
 
 
 232 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
quadrant and cover its trines and so on. Shiva, on the other hand, is associated with 
the 6th movment. We take dasa seed, 6th from there, 6th from there and so on. 
 
The direction of reckoning these houses is based on the 9th house from dasa seed. If 
the 9th house from dasa seed is an odd-footed sign (Ar, Ta, Ge and Li, Sc, Sg), the 
direction is forward. If the 9th house from dasa seed is an even-footed sign (Cn, Le, 
Vi and Cp, Aq, Pi), the direction is backward. 
 
Example 63: Suppose someone has lagna in Ta. Suppose Sc is stronger than Ta. Let 
us find the dasa progression. 
 
Because the 7th house is stronger than lagna, it becomes the dasa seed. So the dasa 
seed is Sc. Because it is a fixed sign, we use “every 6th” progression governed by 
Shiva. The 9th house from Sc is Cn. It is an even-footed sign. So the overall direction 
is backward. So we should count houses in the backward direction. The 6th house 
from Sc, counted backwards, is Ge. The 6th therefrom is Cp. We count the 6th house 
from every rasi in the backward direction and get the complete dasa sequence as: 
 
Sc, Ge, Cp, Le, Pi, Li, Ta, Sg, Cn, Aq, Vi and Ar 
 
This is the order of dasas for the native. 
 
Example 64: Suppose someone has lagna in Pi. Suppose Pi is stronger than Vi. Let 
us find the dasa progression. 
 
Because lagna is stronger than the 7th house, it becomes the dasa seed. So the dasa 
seed is Pi. Because it is a dual sign, we use the trinal progression governed by 
Vishnu. The 9th house from Pi is Sc. It is an odd-footed sign. So the overall direction 
is forward. So we should count houses in the forward direction. We count the 1st, 5th, 
9th houses from dasa seed, then count the same houses from the 10th house, then from 
the 7th house and finally from the 4th house. Trines from Pi are Pi, Cn and Sc. Trines 
from the 10th (Sg) are Sg, Ar and Le. We get the complete dasa sequence as: 
 
Pi, Cn, Sc, Sg, Ar, Le, Vi, Cp, Ta, Ge, Li and Aq. 
 
This is the order of dasas for the native. 
 

=== PAGE 245 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
233 
 
 
 
Example 65: Suppose someone has lagna in Cn. Suppose Cp is stronger than Cn. 
Let us find the dasa progression. 
 
Because the 7th house is stronger than lagna, it becomes the dasa seed. So the dasa 
seed is Cp. Because it is a movable sign, we use the regular (1st, 2nd, 3rd) progression 
governed by Brahma. The 9th house from Cp is Vi. It is an even-footed sign. So the 
overall direction is backward. So we should count houses in the backward direction. 
We count the 1st, 2nd, 3rd etc houses from dasa seed backwards. We get the complete 
dasa sequence as: 
 
Cp, Sg, Sc, Li, Vi, Le, Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar, Pi and Aq. 
 
This is the order of dasas for the native. 
 
Saturn exception: 
 
If Saturn occupies dasa seed, dasa progression becomes regular and zodiacal. If Sc is 
dasa seed and it contains Saturn, dasa progression becomes Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar 
etc. If Pi is dasa seed and it contains Saturn, dasa progression becomes Pi, Ar, Ta, 
Ge, Cn, Le etc. We basically make the direction “forward” and use Brahma’s 
progression. 
 
Ketu exception: 
 
If Ketu occupies dasa seed, the basic direction of dasa progression becomes reversed. 
If it is normally forward, it becomes backward. If it is normally backward, it 
becomes forward. If Sc is dasa seed and it contains Ketu, dasa progression becomes 
Sc, Ar, Vi, Aq, Cn, Sg etc (comparing this with Example 63, readers may note that 
the 6th house is counted in the forward direction instead of the backward direction). 
If Pi is dasa seed and it contains Ketu, dasa progression becomes Pi, Sc, Cn, Ge, Aq, 
Li etc (comparing this with Example 64, readers may note that the 5th, 9th, 10th etc 
house etc are counted in the backward  direction instead of the forward direction.). 
 
Dasa progressions for various dasa seeds are given in Table 40. Three cases are 
covered for each dasa seed — (a) the normal case, (b) with Saturn exception, and, (c) 
with Ketu exception. 
 

=== PAGE 246 ===
 
 
 
 234 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Table 40: Dasa Progression in Narayana Dasa 
Dasa seed 
Dasa Progression 
Ar 
(a) Normal: 
Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi 
(b) Saturn: 
Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi 
(c) Ketu: 
Ar, Pi, Aq, Cp, Sg, Sc, Li, Vi, Le, Cn, Ge, Ta 
Ta 
(a) Normal: 
Ta, Sg, Cn, Aq, Vi, Ar, Sc, Ge, Cp, Le, Pi, Li 
(b) Saturn: 
Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar 
(c) Ketu: 
Ta, Li, Pi, Le, Cp, Ge, Sc, Ar, Vi, Aq, Cn, Sg 
Ge 
(a) Normal: 
Ge, Aq, Li, Vi, Ta, Cp, Sg, Le, Ar, Pi, Sc, Cn 
(b) Saturn: 
Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta 
(c) Ketu: 
Ge, Li, Aq, Pi, Cn, Sc, Sg, Ar, Le, Vi, Cp, Ta 
Cn 
(a) Normal: 
Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar, Pi, Aq, Cp, Sg, Sc, Li, Vi, Le 
(b) Saturn: 
Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge 
(c) Ketu: 
Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge 
Le 
(a) Normal: 
Le, Cp, Ge, Sc, Ar, Vi, Aq, Cn, Sg, Ta, Li, Pi 
(b) Saturn: 
Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn 
(c) Ketu: 
Le, Pi, Li, Ta, Sg, Cn, Aq, Vi, Ar, Sc, Ge, Cp 
Vi 
(a) Normal: 
Vi, Cp, Ta, Ge, Li, Aq, Pi, Cn, Sc, Sg, Ar, Le 
(b) Saturn: 
Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le 
(c) Ketu: 
Vi, Ta, Cp, Sg, Le, Ar, Pi, Sc, Cn, Ge, Aq, Li 
Li 
(a) Normal: 
Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi 
(b) Saturn: 
Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi 
(c) Ketu: 
Li, Vi, Le, Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar, Pi, Aq, Cp, Sg, Sc 
Sc 
(a) Normal: 
Sc, Ge, Cp, Le, Pi, Li, Ta, Sg, Cn, Aq, Vi, Ar 
(b) Saturn: 
Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li 
(c) Ketu: 
Sc, Ar, Vi, Aq, Cn, Sg, Ta, Li, Pi, Le, Cp, Ge 
Sg 
(a) Normal: 
Sg, Le, Ar, Pi, Sc, Cn, Ge, Aq, Li, Vi, Ta, Cp 
(b) Saturn: 
Sg, Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc 
(c) Ketu: 
Sg, Ar, Le, Vi, Cp, Ta, Ge, Li, Aq, Pi, Cn, Sc 
Cp 
(a) Normal: 
Cp, Sg, Sc, Li, Vi, Le, Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar, Pi, Aq 
(b) Saturn: 
Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg 
(c) Ketu: 
Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg 
Aq 
(a) Normal: 
Aq, Cn, Sg, Ta, Li, Pi, Le, Cp, Ge, Sc, Ar, Vi 
(b) Saturn: 
Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp 
(c) Ketu: 
Aq, Vi, Ar, Sc, Ge, Cp, Le, Pi, Li, Ta, Sg, Cn 

=== PAGE 247 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
235 
 
 
 
Pi 
(a) Normal: 
Pi, Cn, Sc, Sg, Ar, Le, Vi, Cp, Ta, Ge, Li, Aq 
(b) Saturn: 
Pi, Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq 
(c) Ketu: 
Pi, Sc, Cn, Ge, Aq, Li, Vi, Ta, Cp, Sg, Le, Ar 
 
We should choose the dasa progression based on dasa seed. If neither Saturn nor 
Ketu occupies dasa seed, we should use the normal progression. If Saturn occupies 
dasa seed, we should apply the Saturn exception. If Ketu occupies dasa seed, we 
should apply the Ketu exception. 
 
18.2.2 
Dasa Length 
 
The length of a dasa is determined by the position of the lord of dasa rasi with 
respect to dasa rasi. Counting is forward if dasa rasi is odd-footed. Counting is 
backward if dasa rasi is even-footed. Count houses from dasa rasi to its lord. Subtract 
one from the count. That gives dasa length in years. 
 
Exceptions: 
 
(1) If the count of houses from dasa rasi to its lord is one, i.e. dasa rasi contains its 
lord, then we get zero by subtracting one from one. However, dasa length 
becomes 12 years then. 
(2) If the lord of dasa rasi is exalted, add one year to dasa length. 
(3) If the lord of dasa rasi is debilitated, subtract one year from dasa length. 
 
Special Notes: 
 
(1) If dasa rasi is Aq or Sc, it has two lords. We should take the stronger lord when 
computing Narayana dasa. 
(2) After dasas of all the rasis are over, the second cycle starts. In the second cycle, 
dasa lengths of various rasis are obtained by subtracting the dasa length in the 
first cycle from 12 years. 
 
Example 66: Let us take the rasi chart in Chart 23 and compute Narayana dasa. 
Because the 7th house (Le) is stronger than lagna (Aq), dasa seed is Le. Because it is 
a fixed sign, we use the “every 6th” progression governed by Shiva. Because the 9th 
from Le (Ar) is odd-footed, we count in the forward direction. Neither Saturn nor 

=== PAGE 248 ===
 
 
 
 236 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Ketu occupies Le and the exceptions don’t apply. Dasa sequence is — Le, Cp, Ge, 
Sc, Ar, Vi, Aq, Cn, Sg, Ta, Li, Pi. Let us now find the lengths of various dasas. 
 
Le is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Le to its lord Sun in the 
backward direction. Sun is in Cn, i.e. the 2nd house from Le in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 2–1=1 year. The native was born in August 1912. This 
dasa runs from Aug 1912 to Aug 1913. 
 
Cp is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Cp to its lord Saturn in the 
backward direction. Saturn is in Ta, i.e. the 9th house from Cp in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 9–1=8 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1913 to Aug 1921. 
 
Ge is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Ge to its lord Mercury in the 
forward direction. Mercury is in Le, i.e. the 3rd house from Ge in the forward 
direction. So dasa length is 3–1=2 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1921 to Aug 1923. 
 
Sc is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Sc to its lord Mars in the forward 
direction. Mars is in Le, i.e. the 10th house from Sc in the forward direction. So dasa 
length is 10–1=9 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1923 to Aug 1932. 
 
Ar is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Ar to its lord Mars in the forward 
direction. Mars is in Le, i.e. the 5th house from Ar in the forward direction. So dasa 
length is 5–1=4 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1932 to Aug 1936. 
 
Vi is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Vi to its lord Mercury in the 
backward direction. Mercury is in Le, i.e. the 2nd house from Vi in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 2–1=1 year. This dasa runs from Aug 1936 to Aug 1937. 
 
Aq is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Aq to its lord Saturn in the 
backward direction. Saturn is in Ta, i.e. the 10th house from Aq in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 10–1=9 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1937 to Aug 
1946. 
 
Cn is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Cn to its lord Moon in the 
backward direction. Moon is in Ta, i.e. the 3rd house from Cn in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 3–1=2 years. However, Moon is exalted and we add one 
year. We get 2+1=3 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1946 to Aug 1949. 
 

=== PAGE 249 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
237 
 
 
 
Sg is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Sg to its lord Jupiter in the 
forward direction. Jupiter is in Sc, i.e. the 12th house from Sg in the forward 
direction. So dasa length is 12–1=11 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1949 to Aug 
1960. 
 
Ta is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Ta to its lord Venus in the 
forward direction. Venus is in Le, i.e. the 4th house from Ta in the forward direction. 
So dasa length is 4–1=3 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1960 to Aug 1963. 
 
Li is an odd-footed sign. So we count houses from Li to its lord Venus in the forward 
direction. Venus is in Le, i.e. the 11th house from Li in the forward direction. So dasa 
length is 11–1=10 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1963 to Aug 1973. 
 
Pi is an even-footed sign. So we count houses from Pi to its lord Jupiter in the 
backward direction. Jupiter is in Sc, i.e. the 5th house from Pi in the backward 
direction. So dasa length is 5–1=4 years. This dasa runs from Aug 1973 to Aug 1977. 
 
Thus the first cycle of dasas ends in Aug 1977. The second cycle starts then. Dasas 
will come in the same order as in the first cycle. Let us compute the second cycle. 
 
Because Le dasa is of 1 year in the 1st cycle, it is 12–1=11 years in the 2nd cycle. This 
dasa runs from Aug 1977 to Aug 1988. 
 
Because Cp dasa is of 8 years in the 1st cycle, it is 12–8=4 years in the 2nd cycle. This 
dasa runs from Aug 1988 to Aug 1992. 
 
Because Ge dasa is of 2 years in the 1st cycle, it is 12–2=10 years in the 2nd cycle. 
This dasa runs from Aug 1992 to Aug 2002. 
 
Exercise 27: Calculate Narayana dasa for the rasi chart given in Chart 21. (Hints: 
Saturn is the stronger lord of Aq and Ketu is the stronger lord of Sc. Aq is stronger 
than Le.) 
 
18.3 Antardasas 
 

=== PAGE 250 ===
 
 
 
 238 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Each dasa is divided into 12 antardasas. All the antardasas have an equal length. If a 
dasa is of n years, then each antardasa in that dasa is for n months. 
 
Antardasas start from the rasi containing the lord of dasa rasi or the rasi containing 
the lord of the 7th house from dasa rasi. Let us denote the stronger of dasa rasi and 
the 7th from it with the expression “antardasa seed”. Antardasas start from the rasi 
containing the lord of antardasa seed and we take the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th etc houses from 
there. The direction of counting houses is forward or backward based on whether the 
rasi from which antardasas start is an odd rasi or even rasi. (NOTE: We are talking 
about odd and even signs here and not about odd-footed and even-footed signs). 
 
Example 67: Suppose Cp dasa of 5 years is running. Lords of Cp and Cn are Saturn 
and Moon respectively. Suppose Saturn is in Le and Moon is in Ta. Antardasas start 
from either Le or Ta. If Cp is stronger than Cn (or Saturn is much stronger than 
Moon), then we start from Le. If Cn is stronger than Cp (or Moon is much stronger 
than Saturn), then we start from Ta. Let us say Cn is stronger than Cp and Saturn is 
not much stronger than Moon. Then antardasas start from Ta, which contains Moon. 
Because Ta is an even sign, counting is backward. So antardasas go as — Ta, Ar, Pi, 
Aq, Cp, Sg, Sc, Li, Vi, Le, Cn and Ge. Each antardasa is of 5 months. 
 
Exceptions: If Saturn occupies antardasa seed rasi, antardasas go in the forward 
direction. If Ketu occupies antardasa seed rasi, antardasa direction is reversed (from 
forward to backward or from backward to forward). In the above example, antardasa 
sequence becomes Ta, Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li, Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq and Pi, if Ketu occupies 
Cn. 
 
18.4 Interpretation 
 
Narayana dasa gives the progression of lagna in life. During the dasa of a rasi, that 
rasi acts as lagna. If dasas are started from the 7th house from lagna, then Narayana 
dasa gives the progression of the 7th house. So the 7th from dasa rasi gives the 
progressed lagna, i.e. the rasi that acts as lagna during the dasa. 
 
Treat the dasa rasi or the 7th from it – based on whether dasas start from lagna or the 
7th house – as lagna and analyze the chart, to see fortune in a dasa. We will denote it 
with “dasa lagna”. We will denote the rasi containing the lord of dasa lagna with 
“paaka rasi”. 

=== PAGE 251 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
239 
 
 
 
 
Just as the strength of lagna lord is very important in a natal chart, strength of the 
lord of dasa lagna is the key to interpreting a dasa. In addition, a lot of principles 
were mentioned by Parasara: 
 
Natural malefics in the 3rd and 6th from dasa lagna give success in ventures. Natural 
benefics in those houses give failures. Natural benefics in trines and 8th from dasa 
lagna give happiness and success. Natural malefics in those houses give failures, 
obstructions and unhappiness. Situation of a planet – benefic or a malefic – in the 
11th house ensures gains. Rahu in the 8th and 12th houses from dasa lagna gives 
constant fear. If the lord of dasa lagna or the lord of a trine or a quadrant from it is 
exalted or in own house, it gives excellent results. Debilitation, on the other hand, is 
bad. If the lord of a dusthana from dasa lagna is debilitated, it gives good results. If 
the 4th house from dasa lagna has malefics, there will be discomfort and lack of 
happiness. Benefics in the same house give happiness, well-being and pleasures. 
Benefics in the 2nd and 5th houses from dasa lagna give good name, fame and favors 
from authorities. Malefics in the same houses bring bad results in the same areas. If 
the 7th house from dasa lagna and paaka rasi is afflicted by malefics, there may 
troubles in marriage. Raja yogas and dhana yogas with respect to dasa lagna bring 
success. If dasa lagna or paaka rasi is associated with an exalted planet or a planet in 
own house, there will be all-round success and accumulation of wealth in that dasa. 
 
In addition to interpreting dasas taking dasa lagna as lagna, we can interpret dasas 
from the natal references also. For example, dasa of raajya pada gives success in 
career. Dasa of upapada may bring marriage. Dasa of the 2nd house or the 7th house 
from upapada may bring troubles in marriage. Dasa of GL may bring power. In 
particular, antardasas aspected by GL may bring promotions. Antardasas aspecting 
upapada may bring marriage. Arudha padas aspected by antardasa rasi are important 
in deciding the results in an antardasa. 
 
We also judge the results given in antardasas by looking at the house occupied by 
antardasa lord from dasa rasi. 
 
Another approach is to divide each dasa into three equal parts. The rasi dominates in 
the first part. Its lord dominates in the second part and gives his results. Occupants of 
the rasi and those who aspect it dominate in the third part. 
 

=== PAGE 252 ===
 
 
 
 240 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 68: Let us consider the rasi chart of Bill Gates, the well-known billionaire 
of computer software giant Microsoft Corporation (see Chart 24). Lagna is stronger 
than the 7th house as its exalted lord aspects it. So dasas start from Ge. 
Chart 24 
 
 
Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Ge (04 years):  Oct 1955 - Oct 1959 
Aq (05 years):  Oct 1959 - Oct 1964 
Li (12 years):  Oct 1964 - Oct 1976 
Vi (12 years):  Oct 1976 - Oct 1988 
Ta (05 years):  Oct 1988 - Oct 1993 
Cp (04 years):  Oct 1993 - Oct 1997 
Sg (08 years):  Oct 1997 - Oct 2005 
 
During Cp dasa, Mr. Gates had a phenomenal rise in stature and finances. His 
company Microsoft became the powerhouse of computer software. Why was Cp 
dasa such a good dasa? 
 
(1) Cp contains raajya pada (A10 – arudha pada of the 10th house). 

=== PAGE 253 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
241 
 
 
 
(2) During Cp dasa, dasa lagna is Cp and paaka rasi is Li. Lord of dasa lagna is 
Saturn. He is exalted in the 10th house with the 10th lord Venus (from dasa lagna). 
They form a powerful raja yoga w.r.t. dasa lagna as well as paaka rasi. 
(3) Exalted Mercury is in a trine from dasa lagna and Jupiter is in 8th from dasa 
lagna. Rahu is in 11th. Two powerful planets are in 10th. All these are favorable 
placements. 
(4) Sun owns the 8th house from dasa lagna and he is debilitated. 
 
At the time of writing this book, Mr. Gates is going through Sg dasa. How will Sg 
dasa be? 
 
(1) Dasa lagna is Sg and paaka rasi is Le. The lord of dasa lagna is not particularly 
strong (not as strong as the previous dasa’s dasa lagna lord). But he is not weak 
either. So things can slow down. 
(2) Dasa lagna lord Jupiter occupies the 9th house suggesting some noble acts of 
charity. 
(3) Rahu occupies the 12th house. This shows constant fear. (Microsoft Corporation 
is facing law suits from the federal government and several state governments in 
US, for being a monopoly). 
(4) Sun, the lord of the 9th house from dasa lagna, is debilitated. He is also the lord of 
paaka rasi. This can suggest some loss of fortune. 
(5) However, other planets are favorably placed w.r.t. dasa lagna. The 10th and 11th 
houses from dasa lagna are particularly strong. Exalted Mercury occupies the 10th 
house from dasa lagna and he has a raaja yoga with Mars w.r.t. dasa lagna. So 
Mr. Gates may continue to be a successful and innovative enterpreneur. 
 
Example 69: Let us consider the rasi chart of India’s independence chart and look at 
the 1990’s (see Chart 25). Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Ta (02 years):  Aug 1947 - Aug 1949 
Sg (10 years):  Aug 1949 - Aug 1959 
Cn (12 years):  Aug 1959 - Aug 1971 
Aq (07 years):  Aug 1971 - Aug 1978 
Vi (02 years):  Aug 1978 - Aug 1980 
Ar (02 years):  Aug 1980 - Aug 1982 
Sc (07 years):  Aug 1982 - Aug 1989 
Ge (01 years):  Aug 1989 - Aug 1990 
Cp (06 years):  Aug 1990 - Aug 1996 

=== PAGE 254 ===
 
 
 
 242 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Le (01 years):  Aug 1996 - Aug 1997 
Pi (05 years):  Aug 1997 - Aug 2002 
 
Chart 25 
 
 
Capricorn dasa runs during 1990-1996. Mars in the 6th house, Jupiter in the 10th 
house and Ketu in the 11th house from dasa lagna are well-placed. Conglomeration of 
planets in the 7th house (relations with other nations) and Ketu in the 11th house gives 
gains from foreign sources. From paaka rasi also, Rahu is in the 11th house and it 
shows the same thing. So Indian economy was liberalized. Jupiter in the 10th house 
shows a versatile, intelligent and knowledgable Brahmin leader (Sri P.V. Narasimha 
Rao). Aspect of Mars on the analytical and tamasik rasi Vi containing the 9th house 
from dasa lagna made the judiciary system relatively aggressive. This resulted in the 
probe into hawala55 scam that shook national politics. 
 
While there was progress during 1990-1996 due to the good placement of most 
planets w.r.t. dasa lagna, India experienced disorder, confusion and instability during 
1996-1997. During this time, India had a minority government formed by a 
                                                 
55 Hawala means “bribes for favors” 

=== PAGE 255 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
243 
 
 
 
conglomeration of minor parties that formed a “third force” in Indian politics.  
During this period, India ran Le dasa. 
 
Dasa lagna during Le dasa is Le itself. Except Mars, no planet is well-placed w.r.t. 
Le. In particular, planetary conglomeration in the 12th house shows constant fear and 
turbulence. It signals instability. Rahu in the 10th house from dasa lagna denies stable 
and capable leadership. 
 
During 1997-2002, India runs Pisces dasa. Most planets are well-placed w.r.t. Pisces. 
So Pisces dasa is a better dasa. As Pisces is a conservative rasi, conservative thought 
may be predominant in the nation. Jupiter owns the 10th house and Mars aspects it. 
So India has another learned and intelligent Brahmin leader who has Martian 
strength in his horoscope (Sri A.B. Vajpayee). 
Chart 26 
 
 
Ketu in the 9th house from dasa lagna may denote religious clashes and violence. 
Mars in the 4th house may denote lack of comfort and the absence of a feeling of 
well-being. These two are bad placements that stand out. Rahu in the 3rd house from 
dasa lagna makes India very bold and assertive. Rahu in the 3rd can also give 

=== PAGE 256 ===
 
 
 
 244 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
aggressive weapon development, as the 3rd house shows weapons. India conducted 
nuclear tests in May 1998. Antardasas in Pisces dasa start from Libra and proceed in 
the forward direction. Antardasa at the time of nuclear tests was Sc. Sc aspects A3, 
which is in Ar. A3 shows the illusion related to boldness or the things based on 
which the world forms impression about one’s boldness, i.e. one’s weapons. 
Antardasas aspecting A3 can bring weapons, just as antardasas aspecting UL can 
bring marriage. 
 
Exercise 28: The native of Chart 26 had an excellent career in India until 1997. Then 
he had to go to US with his wife, who is a software engineer. He could not find the 
right job for his qualifications in US. He could not succeed in his efforts to redeem 
his career. He had to depend on his wife and went through a lot of hard times. 
Calculate Narayana dasa and explain the events. 
 
18.5 Narayana Dasa of Vargas 
 
Narayana dasa may be calculated for vargas (divisional charts) also. Narayana dasa 
of a varga throws light on the progress of matters shown in that varga. For example, 
we can use Naryana dasa of D-4 to time changes in residence, happiness from home 
and stay in foreign countries. We can use Narayana dasa of D-10 to time events in 
career. We can use Narayana dasa of D-24 to time events related to learning and 
knowledge. We can use Narayana dasa of D-9 to time marriage and to predict events 
in marital life. We can use Narayana dasa of D-7 to predict happiness from children. 
We can use Narayana dasa of D-12 to predict relations with parents. 
 
Narayana dasa of vargas is computed a little differently. Each divisional chart is 
based on a seed house. The seed for D-n is the nth house. For example, the seed of D-
9 is the 9th house. D-9 shows dharma (duty). To get married, to live with one’s 
spouse and to perform religious ceremonies with spouse are one’s duties or dharma. 
This is why Navamsa is also called Dharmamsa. The seed of D-10 is the 10th house. 
That is why D-10 shows one’s karma or action in society. The seed of D-7 is the 7th 
house. Sex is for procreation and begetting progeny. The seed of D-4 (house) and D-
16 (vehicles and pleasures) is the 4th house. D-12 in the physical plane (it shows the 
lineage one belongs to) and D-24 in the mental plane (it shows one’s learning) show 
the evolution of one’s self in the respective planes. They are both based on the 12th 
house as the seed, which shows the evolution of self. 

=== PAGE 257 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
245 
 
 
 
 
To get the seed of D-n, just take the nth house. For example, the seed of D-11 is the 
11th house. If n is greater than 12, subtract multiples of 12 from n. For example, the 
seed of D-16 is 16–12=4th house. The seed of D-27 is 27–24=3rd house. The seed of 
D-30 is 30–24=6th house. The seed of D-24 is 24–12=12th house. The seed of D-40 is 
40–36=4th house. 
 
Procedure: 
 
(1) Find the seed house of the divisional chart of interest. 
(2) Take that house in rasi chart. 
(3) Find its lord. Take the stronger lord in the case of Aq and Sc. 
(4) Take the rasi occupied by him in the divisional chart of interest as lagna and find 
Narayana dasa of the divisional chart just as if it were a rasi chart. Use the rules 
explained in the previous sections. 
 
Warning on Interpretation: Narayana dasa of vargas is not the progression of lagna 
or the 7th house. So taking dasa rasi or the 7th from it as lagna and analyzing dasas is 
has no technical basis. It applies only the rasi chart. 
 
Example 70: Suppose someone’s rasi chart has lagna in Cn. Suppose we want 
Narayana dasa of D-10 to time some events in career. The 10th house is the seed of 
D-10. The 10th house in rasi chart is Ar. Its lord is Mars. Suppose D-10 has lagna in 
Ta and Mars in Vi. We ignore lagna in D-10 and treat the rasi containing Mars in D-
10 as lagna and use the rules of Narayana dasa of rasi chart. So we treat Vi as lagna. 
We take the stronger of Vi and Pi as the dasa seed. Suppose Vi is stronger and it does 
not contain Saturn or Ketu. Then dasas go as Vi, Cp, Ta, Ge, Li, Aq etc. We find the 
lengths of dasas and antardasas taking D-10 and applying the rules taught for rasi 
chart. 
 
Example 71: Let us time the foreign stay of the native of Chart 27 using Narayana 
dasa of D-4. Readers may recall that D-4 shows one’s residence and fortune. It is the 
appropriate chart for timing foreign stay. 
 

=== PAGE 258 ===
 
 
 
 246 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Chart 27 
 
 
Lagna is at 14 Vi 52. The 4th house in rasi chart is Sg and Jupiter owns it. He 
occupies Cp in D-4. Let us treat Cp as lagna. So dasa seed is the stronger rasi of Cp 
and Cn (which is the 7th from Cp). As 2 planets occupy Cp, it is stronger than Cn. So 
dasas start from Cp. Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Cp (04 years):  Apr 1970 - Apr 1974 
Sg (00 years):  — 
Sc (03 years):  Apr 1974 - Apr 1977 
Li (09 years):  Apr 1977 - Apr 1986 
Vi (05 years):  Apr 1986 - Apr 1991 
Le (11 years):  Apr 1991 - Apr 2002 
 
NOTES: 
 
(1) Saturn is in the 4th house from Cp, reckoned in the backward direction because 
Cp is an even-footed rasi. We get 4–1=3. However, Saturn is exalted and we 
have to add one year. So Cp dasa is of 4 years. 

=== PAGE 259 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
247 
 
 
 
(2) Jupiter is in the 2nd house from Sg. We get 2–1=1. However, Jupiter is debilitated 
and we have to subtract one year. So Sg dasa is of zero years. However, Sg dasa 
of 12 years will come in the second cycle. 
 
We can see that Le is the 9th house. The 9th house shows prospering in a foreign land. 
Rahu signifies foreign things and he occupies Le. Exalted 12th lord Mars aspects Le. 
For these reasons, Le dasa is a natural candidate for giving foreign stay. We can see 
that 11-year Le dasa started in April 1991. The native moved from his motherland to 
US on 15th August 1991 for higher studies. He is working as a software engineer in 
US now. 
 
Antardasa: To find antardasas in Le dasa, we should take the stronger of Le and Aq. 
Both have one planet each. Le is aspected by Mercury and Jupiter, while Aq is 
aspected by Mercury and its co-lord Saturn. Neither contains an exalted planet. Aq is 
an odd sign and its stronger lord is also in an odd sign. On the other hand, Le is an 
odd sign and its lord is in an even sign. So Le is stronger and antardasas start from 
the rasi containing Sun – the lord of Le. So antardasas start from Vi. Because Vi is 
an even sign, they go in the backward direction. Antardasas of 11 months go as Le, 
Vi, Cn, Ge etc. The native went abroad in Vi antardasa containing Sun. Sun owns the 
9th house in D-4 and owns the 12th house in rasi chart. Lord of Vi is Mercury and he 
occupies the 9th house from dasa rasi. 
 
Pratyantardasa: Vi is stronger than Pi, as it has a planet. Lord of Vi is Mercury. He 
is in Ar – an odd rasi. So pratyantardasas in Vi antardasa go as Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn, Le 
etc. Vi antardasa is of 11 months and it runs from 4th April 1991 to 4th March 1992. 
Dividing it into 12 equal parts, we see that the 5th pratyantardasa runs from 27th July 
1991 to 25th August 1991. So Le pratyantardasa was running when the native landed 
in US. Le is the 9th house containing Rahu. 
 
Example 72: Let us consider the navamsa chart of a lady who got married in mid-
1993 (see Chart 28). 
 
Lagna in rasi chart is Li. The seed for navamsa (D-9) is the 9th house. The 9th lord in 
rasi chart is Mercury. He is in Ge in navamsa and Ge is stronger than Sg. So dasas 
start from Ge. Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Ge (12 years):  Sep 1971 - Sep 1983 
Aq (08 years):  Sep 1983 - Sep 1991 

=== PAGE 260 ===
 
 
 
 248 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Li (02 years):  Sep 1991 - Sep 1993 
Chart 28 
 
 
When she got married in August 1993, she was running Li’s Navamsa Narayana 
dasa. Why did Li’s dasa give marriage? 
 
Lagna in navamsa shows self, from the point of view of dharma and marital life. So 
lagna’s dasa is favorable for marriage. Dasas of the 1st, 3rd and 8th houses from 
upapada (UL) are also favorable for marriage. On the other hand, dasas of 6th house 
from lagna, dasas of the 2nd and 7th houses from UL can bring troubles in marriage 
and even a divorce when the chart has such indications. Because UL shows marriage, 
the 1st, 3rd and 8th houses from it show its birth, vitality and life (longevity). The 2nd 
and 7th houses from it show its end. 
 
Here Li is lagna. So its dasa can certainly bring marriage. 
 
Example 73: Let us consider the navamsa chart of another lady and guess when she 
got married. See Chart 29. 
 

=== PAGE 261 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
249 
 
 
 
Lagna is at 4 Vi 08. So the 9th house in rasi chart is Ta. Lord is Venus. He is in Pi in 
Navamsa. Vi is stronger than Pi, as its lord Mercury aspects it. So dasas start from 
Vi. Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Vi (09 years):  Jul 1969 - Jul 1978 
Cp (05 years):  Jul 1978 - Jul 1983 
Ta (11 years):  Jul 1983 - Jul 1994 
Ge (06 years):  Jul 1994 - Jul 2000 
 
Chart 29 
 
 
Dasas of lagna and UL do not run at the ages when marriage is likely. Dasa of 
Taurus runs from the age of 14 years to 25 years. Taurus is the 3rd from UL and its 
lord is exalted in UL. So Taurus dasa can give marriage. Which antardasa can give 
marriage? Certainly, Aq with lagna and UL lord is a strong candidate and Pi with UL 
and exalted Venus (significator of marriage) is an even stronger candidate. 
 
As Sc is aspected by co-lord Ketu, it is stronger than Ta. However, Mars is the 
stronger lord of Sc, as he is aspected by Mercury and his dispositor (Mercury again). 

=== PAGE 262 ===
 
 
 
 250 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Ketu is aspected only by his dispositor (Saturn) and Mars’ count of 2 beats Ketu’s 
count of 1. So antardasas start from Vi. The 7th antardasa belongs to Pi. Each 
antardasa is of 11 months and the 7th antardasa starts after 5.5 years. It runs during 
Jan-Dec 1989. The lady got married in May 1989. So Pi antardasa brought marriage. 
 
Exercise 29: Consider the lady whose Navamsa is given in Chart 30. Despite wise 
counsel by elders, this lady insisted on leaving her husband and ended her marriage 
in early June 2000. Find the antardasa running then as per Navamsa Narayana dasa 
and explain the event. 
Chart 30 
 
 
Example 74: Let us consider the D-10 of an electrical engineer who faced some 
setbacks in career during 1994-1996 (see Chart 31). His enemies conspired and laid a 
trap for him and he was suspended by the government from his job for a mistake he 
did not make. He had to suffer for a long time. 
 

=== PAGE 263 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
251 
 
 
 
Lagna is at 16 Aq 50. The 10th house in rasi chart is Sc and Mars is its lord. Mars is 
in Cp in D-10. Cn is stronger than Cp, as Jupiter occupies it and its lord Moon 
aspects it. Narayana dasa starts from Cn and the calculations are given below: 
 
Cn (03 years):  Sep 1947 - Sep 1950 
Ge (11 years):  Sep 1950 - Sep 1961 
Ta (11 years):  Sep 1961 - Sep 1972 
Ar (10 years):  Sep 1972 - Sep 1982 
Pi (09 years):  Sep 1982 - Sep 1991 
Aq (05 years):  Sep 1991 - Sep 1996 
Chart 31 
 
 
The setbacks occurred in Aq dasa. Why is Aq a bad dasa? 
 
Aq is the 8th house from lagna in D-10 and it gives tension, frustration, worries and 
setbacks (related to career). It is the 12th house of losses from AL, showing some 
setbacks in professional status. The 2nd and 5th houses and also Sun show recognition 
from authorities in a chart. Sun owns the 2nd house here and he is in Aq, afflicted by 
enemy Rahu. Affliction of Sun by Rahu in dasa rasi can show scandals and making a 
bad name with authorities. Aquarius has Satru pada (arudha pada of 6th house) and it 

=== PAGE 264 ===
 
 
 
 252 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
can show trouble from enemies. Because of the exaltation of Saturn in a quadrant, 
the middle part of this dasa must be good. Because the occupants of a rasi dominate 
the last one-third of a dasa, that was when Sun and Rahu gave the troubles. 
 
Exercise 30: Consider the gentleman whose D-10 is given in Chart 32. Find 
Dasamsa Narayana dasa running in 1996-1998 and judge whether that period should 
be good or bad for his career. 
Chart 32 
 
 
Example 75: Let us consider the native whose D-16 is given in Chart 33. D-16 
shows vehicles, comforts and discomforts. The native had a vehicular accident in 
December 1996. Let us find the antardasa running then and see if the event makes 
sense. 
 
Lagna is at 14 Vi 52. The seed of D-16 is the 4th house, as 16–12=4. The 4th lord in 
Rasi chart is Jupiter. In D-16, he is in Vi and Vi is stronger than Pi. So dasas start 
from Vi. Narayana dasa calculations of D-16 are given below: 
 

=== PAGE 265 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
253 
 
 
 
Vi (04 years):  Apr 1970 - Apr 1974 
Cp (01 years):  Apr 1974 - Apr 1975 
Ta (03 years):  Apr 1975 - Apr 1978 
Ge (11 years):  Apr 1978 - Apr 1989 
Li (10 years):  Apr 1989 - Apr 1999 
Chart 33 
 
 
In Li dasa, antardasas start from the lord of Li or Ar. Li is aspected by Mercury and 
its lord Venus and it is stronger. Its lord Venus is in Le, an odd rasi. So antardasas 
start from Le and go in the forward direction. Li dasa started in April 1989 and this 
event happened in December 1996. From April 1989 to December 1996, a period of 
7 years and 8 months (7x12+8=92 months) passed. Each antardasa is of 10 months as 
Li dasa is of 10 years. So 9 antardasas finish after 90 months and the 10th antardasa 
runs in the 92nd month. The 10th house from Le is Ta. Why did Ta antardasa bring an 
accident? 
 
Ta is the 12th from vahanapada (A4 – arudha pada of the 4th house). It can give losses 
to the vehicle. Lord of A4 is Mercury and he is with Rahu and Ketu in Ta. So vehicle 
can be involved in an accident. Moreover, mrityu pada (A8) is in Ta and troubles 

=== PAGE 266 ===
 
 
 
 254 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
related to vehicles can be expected. Nobody was hurt in the accident, but the car was 
badly damaged and the native was given a new car by his insurance company. In the 
next 6 months, his new car was damaged twice while parked in a parking lot. One of 
the damages was serious. So Ta antardasa continued to give vehicular troubles. 
 
One may wonder why we are looking at antardasa and not mahadasa. Events shown 
by mahadasa suggest the overall mood of the whole 10 year period, while events 
shown by antardasa are applicable to 10 months here. With Li being the 4th house 
and having the argala of lord Venus, the native had the comfort of vehicles in Li 
dasa. However, Ta antardasa was bad due to Rahu and A8. Based on the event of 
interest, we should judiciously choose mahadasa or antardasa or pratyantardasa for 
examination. If an event plays a role in a native’s life for just a week, it is probably 
shown in pratyantardasa. If an event plays a role in a native’s life for a few months, it 
is probably shown in antardasa. Mahadasa shows the mood of longer periods. If we 
want to analyze a temporary activity that remains in a native’s mind for just an hour, 
it is probably seen in the praana-antardasa or deha-antardasa running then. We 
should determine the effective period of an event and judiciously choose the dasa 
division in which it should be seen. 
 
18.6 Sub-divisions of Narayana Dasa 
 
Narayana dasa is a versatile rasi dasa. It is a general purpose phalita dasa. It can be 
computed separately for each divisional chart for precise timing of events related to 
the matters associated with that divisional chart. We can go down to the precision of 
a day or an hour by using fine sub-divisions of dasas. As in Example 71, we can 
divide each antardasa into 12 equal pratyantardasas. This is done in the same manner 
as each dasa is divided into 12 equal antardasas. In the same manner, we can divide 
each pratyantardasa into 12 equal sookshma-antardasas (or simply sookshma dasas), 
each sookshma-antardasa into 12 equal praana-antardasas (or simply praana dasas) 
and each praana-antardasa into 12 equal deha-antardasas. 
 
When we say that a period is divided into 12 equal sub-periods, what do we mean by 
“equal”? We obviously mean that the twelve sub-periods have the same length. The 
next question is — how do we measure the length of a sub-period? In days, hours, 
minutes and seconds? No! We measure the length of a period (or a sub-period) by 
the angle of the arc traversed by Sun during that period (or sub-period). Two periods 
are said to be equal if and only if Sun moves by the same degrees, minutes and 

=== PAGE 267 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
255 
 
 
 
seconds during the two periods. In other words, we take 1 year=12 months and 1 
month=30 days, where 1 day is the time in which Sun moves by 1º. 
 
Motion of Sun is the basis for measuring time in rasi dasas. Suppose a dasa of 5 
years starts after the native completes 37 years. If Sun is at 23° 50' 25'' in Aq in the 
birthchart of a native born in 1960, he finishes 37 years when Sun reaches the same 
longitude in 1997. If the dasa is of 5 years, each antardasa is of 5 months. This 
corresponds to the time in which Sun moves by 5x30º=150º. When each antardasa 
divided into 12 equal pratyantardasas, Sun moves by exactly 150º/12=12°30' during 
each pratyantardasa. 
 
Thus we should divide time in the space of Sun’s longitude when dividing dasas upto 
praana-antardasas or deha-antardasas. Then only correct results will be obtained. A 
free software program for computers using Microsoft Windows operating systems 
can be downloaded at http://www.VedicAstrologer.org. Given the birthdata and the 
start year and length of a mahadasa, this software program can divide the mahadasa 
upto the level of deha-antardasas using Sun’s longitude as the measure of time. 
 
18.7 Conclusion 
 
Narayana dasa may be said to be the most important phalita dasa. Its versatility lies 
in the fact that it can be computed separately for each divisional chart for precise 
timing of specific matters. In fact, we can compute more than one Narayana dasa for 
each divisional chart. Narayana dasa of D-12 seeded from the 12th lord is native-
centric. It shows events in a native’s life that are related to parents. Even when 
looking at the events in the lives of parents, it takes the native as the reference. To 
see events in the lives of parents directly, we can use different seeds. Similarly, 12th 
house used as the seed in D-24 Narayana dasa shows the learning from the point of 
view of one’s evolution. One can use the 4th house (formal learning) as the seed in 
D-24 Narayana dasa to see formal education. By using a different seed, we can 
examine the events related to the chosen divisional chart from a different angle. 
Readers should try to master this fantastic dasa system. 
 
18.8 Answers to Exercises 
 

=== PAGE 268 ===
 
 
 
 256 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Exercise 27: 
 
The 7th house has 2 planets and lagna has only one. So the 7th house acts as dasa 
seed. Progression for Aq is: every 6th. Because Li (9th from Aq) is odd-footed, 
direction is normally “forward”. But Ketu’s presence in Aq reverses it and makes it 
“backward”. Saturn acts as the lord of Aq and Ketu as the lord of Sc. Dasas go as: 
 
Aq (02 years):  Nov 1960 - Nov 1962 
Vi (11 years):  Nov 1962 - Nov 1973 
Ar (02 years):  Nov 1973 - Nov 1975 
Sc (03 years):  Nov 1975 - Nov 1978 
Ge (04 years):  Nov 1978 - Nov 1982 
Cp (01 years):  Nov 1982 - Nov 1983 
Le (09 years):  Nov 1983 - Nov 1992 
Pi (03 years):  Nov 1992 - Nov 1995 
Li (02 years):  Nov 1995 - Nov 1997 
Ta (07 years):  Nov 1997 - Nov 2004 
Sg (12 years):  Nov 2004 - Nov 2016 
Cn (05 years):  Nov 2016 - Nov 2021 
 
Aq (10 years):  Nov 2021 - Nov 2031 
Vi (01 years):  Nov 2031 - Nov 2032 
Ar (10 years):  Nov 2032 - Nov 2042 
Sc (09 years):  Nov 2042 - Nov 2051 
Ge (08 years):  Nov 2051 - Nov 2059 
Cp (11 years):  Nov 2059 - Nov 2070 
Le (03 years):  Nov 2070 - Nov 2073 
Pi (09 years):  Nov 2073 - Nov 2082 
 
We stop here because 120 years is the paramayush of human beings. 
 
Exercise 28: 
 
Both Ge and Sg are unoccupied. Neither is occupied or aspected by Jupiter, Mercury 
or lord. Ge is an odd rasi and Mercury is also in an odd rasi. But Sg is an odd rasi 
and Jupiter is in an even rasi. So Sg is stronger. Narayana dasa calculations are given 
below: 
 
Sg (11 years):  May 1971 - May 1982 
Le (05 years):  May 1982 - May 1987 
Ar (10 years):  May 1987 - May 1997 
Pi (04 years):  May 1997 - May 2001 

=== PAGE 269 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
257 
 
 
 
Sc (03 years):  May 2001 - May 2004 
 
Because we started dasas from the 7th house instead of lagna, Narayana dasa shows 
the progression of the 7th house instead of lagna. So dasa lagna is the 7th from dasa 
rasi. During Ar dasa, dasa lagna is Li. Due to the exaltation of dasa lagna lord Venus 
(among other things), it was a very good dasa. During Pi dasa, dasa lagna is Vi. Lord 
of Vi is Mercury and he is in the 8th house from it. Lords of two dusthanas – Mars 
and Sun – are exalted and that suggests hard times. Jupiter in the 3rd from dasa lagna 
suggests failures. There are no malefics in the 3rd or 6th from dasa lagna. Saturn in 
the 9th house suggests loss of fortune or struggle for fortune in far away places. Ketu 
in the 11th house shows gains from foreign sources. Exalted 9th lord Venus is in the 
7th house. So he went abroad following his wife. 
 
Exercise 29: 
 
Lagna is at 0 Sc 39. Moon is the 9th lord in rasi chart. He is in Aq. Le is stronger than 
Aq because Sun is more advanced in his rasi than Saturn. Dasas start from Le. 
Because of the presence of Saturn in Le, they go in the regular zodiacal order. 
Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Le (02 years):  Jun 1976 - Jun 1978 
Vi (08 years):  Jun 1978 - Jun 1986 
Li (07 years):  Jun 1986 - Jun 1993 
Sc (10 years):  Jun 1993 - Jun 2003 
 
Let us find antardasas in Sc dasa. Ta is stronger than Sc. Lord of Ta is Venus. He is 
in Ta itself. So antardasas start from Ta. Because Ta is an even rasi, antardasas go in 
the backward order. Each antardasa lasts 10 months. It takes 80 months (or 6 years 
and 8 months) for 8 antardasas to finish. So the 9th antardasa starts in February 2000 
and runs for 8 months. The 9th antardasa belongs to the 9th house from Ta in the 
backward direction. It is Vi. 
 
Vi is the 2nd house from UL and it shows the end of marriage. Ketu occupies it and 
Sun, Mars and Rahu aspect it. Because of these malefic influences, Vi periods can 
break her marriage. Sun’s aspect on the 2nd from UL can denote father’s influence in 
the break-up. This lady encountered resistance from mother and maternal relatives, 
but her father encouraged her to end the marriage. 
 

=== PAGE 270 ===
 
 
 
 258 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Exercise 30: 
 
Sg contains Mercury who owns the 10th house in rasi chart. Sg is stronger than Ge 
and dasas start from Sg. Dasamsa Narayana dasa calculations are given below: 
 
Sg (11 years):  Jul 1961 - Jul 1972 
Le (03 years):  Jul 1972 - Jul 1975 
Ar (11 years):  Jul 1975 - Jul 1986 
Pi (04 years):  Jul 1986 - Jul 1990 
Sc (04 years):  Jul 1990 - Jul 1994 
Cn (05 years):  Jul 1994 - Jul 1999 
 
Cancer dasa was running in 1996-1998. Is it good or bad? 
 
Cancer is the 5th house from lagna and it shows recognition. It contains AL in D-10 
and shows status in career. Cancer has argalas and rasi aspects from lagna lord 
Jupiter and Sun. Moreover, it has bhaagya pada (A9 – arudha pada of the 9th house). 
A9 shows the illusion associated with fortune (in career, because this is D-10). It 
shows the things based on which people form impression about one’s fortune. It 
essentially shows the trappings of fortune, like good position and money. Dasa of A9 
in D-10 can give excellent position in career. So this period must have been excellent 
for the native’s career. 
 
In fact, it was. The native owned a private company specializing in computer 
software and hardware for a niche market. He sold his company to a large 
corporation for several millions of dollars in February 1997 and became a Vice 
President of that corporation. It was predicted to him by this author in mid-1996 that 
a very important event in his professional and financial life would take place in the 
middle of February 1997. 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 271 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
259 
 
 
 
19.  Lagna Kendradi Rasi Dasa 
 
19.1 Introduction 
 
There is a dasa called “Kendradi Graha Dasa” or “Moola dasa”, which goes through 
the dasas of planets in quadrants, panapharas and apoklimas from the stronger of 
lagna and Moon (some authors include Sun). Vimsottari dasa years with 
moolatrikona correction are used. According to some authors, this dasa is applicable 
to all people. In particular, if there are 4 planets in quadrants from the stronger of 
lagna and Moon, this dasa gives much better results than Vimsottari dasa. 
 
Moola dasa is beyond the scope of this book. But we will cover a similar dasa, which 
belongs to rasis instead of planets. It is called “Kendradi Rasi Dasa”. In particular, 
we will cover “Lagna Kendradi Rasi Dasa”. 
 
Kendra means “quadrants” and adi means “starting with”. In this dasa, we cover the 
rasis in quadrants from lagna first and then cover panapharas and apoklimas. 
 
This is a phalita dasa that shows material success well. 
 
19.2 Computation 
 
(1) Dasas start from the stronger of lagna and 7th house. Let us call this rasi “dasa 
seed”. 
(2) The direction of reckoning dasas is forward or backward based on whether lagna 
is in an odd sign or an even sign. If Saturn is in the stronger of lagna and 7th, dasa 
order is forward. If Ketu is in the stronger of lagna and 7th, dasa order is reversed. 
NOTE: We are talking about odd and even signs here and not about odd-footed 
and even-footed signs. 
(3) First 4 dasas will belong to the kendras (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) from dasa seed. 
(4) Next 4 dasas will belong to the panapharas (2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th) from dasa seed. 

=== PAGE 272 ===
 
 
 
 260 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(5) Last 4 dasas will belong to the apoklimas (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th) from dasa seed. 
(6) Dasa periods of various rasis in this dasa system are found just like in Narayana 
dasa. 
 
Suppose lagna is in Ge and Ge is stronger than Sg. Then dasas start from Ge. 
Because Ge is an odd sign, we go in the forward order and get dasa order as: 
 
Ge (1st), Vi (4th), Sg (7th) , Pi (10th), Cn (2nd), Li (5th), Cp (8th) , Ar (11th), Le (3rd), Sc 
(6th), Aq (9th) , Ta(12th). 
 
Suppose lagna is in Ta and Ta is stronger than Sc. Then dasas start from Ta. Because 
Ta is an even sign, we go in the backward order and count houses in the backward 
direction. We get dasa order as: 
 
Ta (1st), Aq (4th), Sc (7th) , Le (10th), Ar (2nd), Cp (5th), Li (8th) , Cn (11th), Pi (3rd), Sg 
(6th), Vi (9th) , Ge (12th). 
 
19.3 Interpretation 
 
Parasara taught that the quadrants are ruled by Sri Maha Vishnu and the trines are 
ruled by Sri Maha Lakshmi. If we cover the trines of lagna, then go to the trines of 
another quadrant and cover all the 12 signs in that fashion (i.e. as the trines from 
quadrants), that sequence is quadrant-based and hence Narayana rules it. This 
progression is seen for dual signs in Narayana dasa. On the other hand, if we cover 
the quadrants of lagna first, then go to the quadrants of 5th/9th and finally cover the 
quadrants of the 3rd trine, then the sequence is trine-based and Sri Lakshmi rules it. 
 
In other words, the sequence 1st, 5th, 9th, 10th etc is quadrant-based and it is ruled by 
Narayana. The sequence 1st, 4th, 7th, 10th is trine-based and it is ruled by Lakshmi. 
 
So Kendradi rasi dasa uses the movement ruled by Lakshmi. Lakshmi is the goddess 
of wealth and prosperity. So this dasa shows the periods of prosperity. It shows the 
progression of lagna using the movement ruled by Sri Lakshmi. 
 

=== PAGE 273 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
261 
 
 
 
NOTE: We will learn Sudasa in a later chapter. Sudasa is also a Kendradi Rasi Dasa, 
but started from Sree Lagna instead of lagna. Sree Lagna is the Lakshmi sthana56 in a 
horoscope. So its progression using the movement ruled by Sri Lakshmi is more 
important. 
 
Example 76: Let us consider the horoscope of former US President Ronald Reagan 
(see Chart 34). 
 
Chart 34 
 
 
Lagna is in Sc. Ta is stronger than Sc, as it has Jupiter’s aspect. So dasas start from 
Ta. Because Ta is an even rasi, we go anti-zodiacally. Dasas go as shown in Table 
41. 
 
Table 41: Dasa years 
Rasi 
Ta 
Aq 
Sc 
Le 
Ar 
Cp 
Li 
Cn 
Pi 
Sg 
Vi 
Ge 
                                                 
56 Residence of Lakshmi, the goddess of prosperity 

=== PAGE 274 ===
 
 
 
 262 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Dasa 
(years) 
9 
10 
11 
7 
8 
8 
4 
3 
5 
10 
9 
6 
 
Dasas from Ta to Pi add up to 65 years and run during 1911-1976. Sg dasa runs 
during 1976-1986. Mr. Reagan became US President in 1980. Why did Sg dasa bring 
such success? 
 
(1) Usually rasis containing AK give success. Sg has AK. 
(2) Signs having a strong argala of AmK show coming under the decisive influence 
of good advisors, ministers and bureaucrats. We find in the charts of politicians 
that rasis having strong argalas from AmK give political power. That is because 
political power usually brings a leader in the company of excellent advisors, 
ministers, secretaries or bureaucrats. Here Sg has an unobstructed argala from 
AmK Sun, who is in the 2nd from Sg in Gopuramsa with 6 rekhas in 
ashtakavarga. This shows very capable political advisors. 
(3) More than anything else, Sg has GL. GL is the seat of power in a chart. 
(4) Lagna lord Mars is in Sg and he connects lagna to GL. 
 
19.4 Conclusion 
 
This dasa shows material success as it is based on a movement ruled by Sri Maha 
Lakshmi. It may be used in conjunction with Sudasa to predict material success. 
However, Sudasa is a superior dasa. 
 
A noted author who wrote a book on “Mandooka dasa” made some changes to 
“Lagna Kendradi Rasi Dasa” and presented it as “Mandooka dasa”. However the 
quadrants-panapharas-apoklimas movement is called “kendraadi gati” and certainly 
not mandooki gati. Mandooki gati was clearly explained by Parasara in his 
discussion on Kalachakra dasa and it is the 3rd/11th jump. Mandooka dasa is based on 
mandooki gati and Mandooka dasa of Rudramsa is used for predicting the results of 
wars and death. The dasa presented by the gentleman in question is certainly not 
Mandooka dasa. It is only a variation of the dasa discussed in this chapter. 
 

=== PAGE 275 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
263 
 
 
 
20.  Sudasa 
 
20.1 Introduction 
 
Sudasa is a rasi dasa. It is also called “Sree Lagna Kendradi Rasi Dasa” or simply 
“Rasi Dasa”. Its computation is based on kendras etc from Sree Lagna. Sudasa is 
important for materialistic things like money, power and authority. It can be used to 
predict financial matters and matters related to status and power. If a political leader 
occupies a post of power, he must be enjoying a favorable dasa as per Sudasa. If a 
businessman sees increasing profits, he must be enjoying a favorable dasa as per 
Sudasa. If someone struggles with tight finances, he must be going through an 
unfavorable dasa as per Sudasa. 
 
20.2 Computation 
 
(1) In Sudasa, dasas start from the sign containing Sree Lagna (see the chapter on 
special lagnas). 
(2) The direction of reckoning dasas is forward or backward based on whether SL is 
in an odd sign or an even sign. 
NOTE: We are talking about odd and even signs here and not about odd-footed 
and even-footed signs. 
(3) First 4 dasas will belong to the kendras (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) from SL. 
(4) Next 4 dasas will belong to the panapharas (2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th) from SL. 
(5) Last 4 dasas will belong to the apoklimas (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th) from SL. 
(6) Dasa periods of various rasis in this dasa system are found just like in Narayana 
dasa. 
(7) But there is an exception in the case of first dasa. Only a fraction of first dasa is 
left at birth. This fraction is found using the formula: (30° – SL’s advancement in 
its sign)/30°. 
 

=== PAGE 276 ===
 
 
 
 264 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 77: Consider Sri Vajpayee’s rasi chart shown in Chart 3. His SL is at 
12°21' in Capricorn. 
 
(1) Dasas start from Capricorn, the sign containing SL. 
(2) Because Capricorn is an even sign, the direction of reckoning dasas is backward. 
(3) First 4 dasas will belong to kendras from Cp, reckoned in the backward direction. 
They are Cp, Li, Cn and Ar. 
(4) Next 4 dasas will belong to panapharas from Cp, reckoned in the backward 
direction. They are Sg, Vi, Ge and Pi. 
(5) Last 4 dasas will belong to apoklimas from Cp, reckoned in the backward 
direction. They are Sc, Le, Ta and Aq. 
(6) Dasa periods are found as in Narayana dasa. We get dasa periods as: 
Cp: 
2 years 
Li: 
2 years 
Cn: 
11 years 
Ar: 
12 years 
Sg: 
2 years 
Vi: 
10 years 
Ge: 
5 years 
Pi: 
1 year 
Sc: 
2 years 
Le: 
8 years 
Ta: 
7 years 
Aq: 
3 years 
(7) SL is at 12°21' in Capricorn. The fraction of the first dasa left at birth = (30° – 
12°21'/30° = (1800 – 741)/1800 = 0.5883. 
First dasa of Cp is of 2 years and 0.5883 of it is 1.1766 years, i.e., 1 year 2 
months 3 days 14 hours. So this is the remainder of Cp dasa at birth. After this, 
Li dasa of 2 years will start. 
20.3 Interpretation 
 

=== PAGE 277 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
265 
 
 
 
(1) Dasas of HL, 7th from HL and the signs aspecting HL bring financial prosperity. 
If the lord of the dasa sign occupies or aspects HL, it will improve the chance of 
financial prosperity. Similarly, if the lord of HL occupies or aspects dasa sign, it 
will also improve the chances of financial prosperity. 
For example, say HL is in Aries, Mars is in Leo and Sun is in Scorpio. Then (a) 
Leo aspects HL, (b) lord of Leo aspects HL and (c) lord of HL occupies Leo. So 
Leo dasa is triply likely to bring financial prosperity. 
(2) Same thing holds for GL and the prescribed results are power and authority 
instead of financial prosperity. 
(3) Upachayas from any house stand for the growth of matters signified by that 
house. AL stands for one’s status. So dasas of upachayas from AL bring growth 
of status. Dasa of the 11th house from AL is particularly favorable. 
(4) The 8th and 12th houses from AL bring setbacks to one’s status. Their dasas can 
be unfavorable. 
Example 78: Consider Sri Vajpayee, whose Sudasa was calculated in Example 77. 
His GL is in Cancer. Capricorn is the 7th house from GL and it can bring power and 
authority. Its lord Saturn aspects GL. Moon is the lord of GL and he aspects Cp. So 
Cp dasa is very favorable for attaining a position of power and authority. Moreover, 
Cp contains AL and A5. AL shows status and A5 can show power. The 5th house 
shows one’s following. A5 shows things based on which the world forms an 
impression about one’s following. It can show the trappings of power. Capricorn 
dasa in the second cycle made him the Prime Minister of India. 
 
Of course, Narayana is important for power, though Sri Lakshmi gives prosperity. So 
we should always check Narayana dasa along with Sudasa. Sri Vajpayee was 
running the Narayana dasa of Sc during the same time and so he became the Prime 
Minister. Scorpio is lagna and houses a powerful raja yoga between AK (Mercury) 
and PK (Saturn). We studied in the chapter “Yogas” that the conjunction of AK and 
PK is a raja yoga, especially in 1st and 5th. 
 
Example 79: Consider Indian political leader Jayalalita’s chart shown in Chart 35. 
She was the Chief Minister of an important state in south India during 1991-1996. 
 

=== PAGE 278 ===
 
 
 
 266 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Chart 35 
 
 
Her SL is in 22 Sg 22. So dasas start from Sg. Because Sg is an odd sign, counting of 
houses is in the zodiacal direction. Dasas go as Sg, Pi, Ge, Vi (quadrants); Cp, Ar, 
Cn, Li (panapharas); Aq, Ta, Le, Sc (apoklimas). The first dasa of Sg is of 12 years, 
because its lord Jupiter is in Sg. But SL is at 22°22' in Sg and the remainder in first 
dasa at birth is 12 x (30° – 22°22')/30° = 12 x 0.2544 years =  3 years 19 days. After 
that, 3 years of Pi dasa, 8 years of Ge dasa, 7 years of Vi dasa, 6 years of Cp dasa, 4 
years of Ar dasa, 11 years of Cn dasa and 6 years of Li dasa follow. Li dasa ran 
during Feb 1990-Feb 1996. 
 
As Libra contains AL, GL and HL, its dasa as per Sudasa must give status, power 
and wealth. No wonder the native became a powerful Chief Minister. 
 
 

=== PAGE 279 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
267 
 
 
 
21.  Drigdasa 
 
21.1 Introduction 
 
Drigdasa is a rasi dasa. Drik means vision and drigdasa is a dasa based on aspects. It 
shows how spiritual vision develops in a native and steers one’s life. If a native’s 
chart promises spiritual growth, this dasa shows religious and spiritual activities and 
the evolution of one’s soul. 
 
21.2 Computation 
 
(1) Dasas start from the 9th house. 
(2) First 4 dasas belong to the 9th house and the 3 signs aspected by it. Order of 
reckoning is forward or backward based on whether the 9th house is odd-footed 
or even-footed. 
(3) Next 4 dasas belong to the next house (10th house) and the 3 signs aspected by it. 
Order of reckoning is forward or backward based on whether the 10th house is 
odd-footed or even-footed. 
(4) Last 4 dasas belong to the house after that (11th house) and the 3 signs aspected 
by it. Order of reckoning is forward or backward based on whether the 11th house 
is odd-footed or even-footed. 
(5) Dasa periods of various rasis in this dasa system are found just like in Narayana 
dasa. 
Example 80: Consider the gentleman in Chart 36. His lagna is in Libra. Ge is the 9th 
house, Cn is the 10th house and Le is the 11th house.  
 
(1) Dasas start from the 9th house, i.e., Ge. 
(2) Because Ge is an odd-footed sign, we should go forward as Ge, Cn, Le, Vi, Li etc 
and find the signs that aspect Ge. We get Ge, Vi, Sg and Pi. 

=== PAGE 280 ===
 
 
 
 268 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
(3) Next 4 dasas will belong to the 10th house (Cn) and rasis aspected by it. Because 
Cn is an even-footed sign, we should go backward as Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar, Pi etc and 
find the signs that aspect Cn. We get Cn, Ta, Aq and Sc. 
(4) Last 4 dasas will belong to the 11th house (Le) and rasis aspected by it. Because 
Le is an even-footed sign, we should go backward as Le, Cn, Ge, Ta, Ar etc and 
find the signs that aspect Le. We get Le, Ar, Cp and Li. 
(5) So dasas go as Ge, Vi, Sg, Pi, Cn, Ta, Aq, Sc, Le, Ar, Cp and Li. Dasa periods of 
individual signs are found just as in Narayana dasa. 
Chart 36 
 
 
So we get the following as the dasa table: 
 
Ge: 
4 years 
Vi: 
11 years 
Sg: 
2 years 
Pi: 
1 year 
Cn: 
6 years 
Ta: 
3 years 
Aq: 
8 years 

=== PAGE 281 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
269 
 
 
 
Sc: 
10 years 
Le: 
11 years 
Ar: 
5 years 
Cp: 
7 years 
Li: 
10 years 
 
21.3 Interpretation 
 
(1) Dasa of arudha lagna can bring renunciation if there are parivraja yogas in the 
chart, indicating renunciation. 
(2) Dasas of signs aspecting arudha lagna can bring external activities that are 
important for one’s spiritual evolution. 
(3) Dasa of lagna and the 7th house can bring internal awakening and self-
realization. 
(4) Dasa of lagna can also bring fame and power related to spreading spiritual 
knowledge. A monk may, for example, become the Chief Pontiff of a monastery. 
(5) Dasas of signs containing or aspecting mantrapada (A5, arudha pada of the 5th 
house) can bring a religious initiation or sadhana (rigorous practice) of a mantra. 
(6) Dasa of the sign containing mrityupada (A8, arudha pada of 8th house) can bring 
yogic sadhana. It can activate Kundalini sakti. 
(7) Ketu is the significator of moksha (final liberation). Dasa of the sign containing 
Ketu can bring spiritual activities that take one towards liberation. Ketu is the 
only planet who can give real spiritual awakening and liberation. 
(8) Dasa of the sign containing Rahu can create progress after internal turmoil if 
Rahu is favorable. If Rahu is unfavorable, it can take the native in the direction 
of materialism. 
 
Example 81: Consider the gentleman in Chart 36, whose Drigdasa was computed in 
Example 80. Let us analyze Ta dasa that comes during 24-27 years of age. Ta has 
mokshakaraka Ketu in it. Lagna and mantrapada are in Li and Ta aspects both. 
Because of these reasons, Ta dasa can bring internal progress and spiritual evolution. 
It can make the native learn and use mantras. 
 

=== PAGE 282 ===
 
 
 
 270 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 82: Chart 37 gives the rasi chart of an ISKCON57 devotee who was 
disillusioned with the materialistic world, left his education in mathematics at a 
Russian university, wandered in the forests for a few months and then found 
ISKCON. He was introduced to ISKCON and moved to a monastery in 1990. 
Chart 37 
 
 
Lagna is in Aq. The 9th house is in Li. It is an odd-footed sign. So we start from Li, 
go zodiacally and list the rasis aspecting Li. They are Li, Aq, Ta and Le. The 10th 
house is in Sc. It is an odd-footed sign. So we start from Sc, go zodiacally and list the 
rasis aspecting Sc. They are Sc, Cp, Ar and Cn. The 11th house is in Sg. It is an odd-
footed sign. So we start from Sg, go zodiacally and list the rasis aspecting Sg. They 
are Sg, Pi, Ge and Vi. So dasas go as 
 
Li, Aq, Ta, Le, Sc, Cp, Ar, Cn, Sg, Pi, Ge, Vi 
 
                                                 
57 ISKCON is an acronym for “International Society for Krishna CONsciousness”, which was 
founded by Srila Prabhupada for spreading Krishna consciousness and Vaishnava thought in the 
world. 

=== PAGE 283 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
271 
 
 
 
Lengths of dasas are found as in Narayana dasa. Dasa sequence is given below: 
 
Li: 
1 year 
Aq: 
9 years 
Ta: 
6 years 
Le: 
7 years 
 
Leo dasa runs during Jan 1987-Jan 1994. Leo is the 7th from lagna and it contains 
Ketu. It can give spiritual awakening. 
Chart 38 
 
 
Example 83: Chart 38 shows the rasi chart of Sri Aurobindo Ghose. He was an 
Indian political activist, freedom fighter, yogi, spiritual teacher and a renowned 
author who wrote excellent commentaries on Vedas, Upanishats etc. 
 
After his education in England, he returned to India to take part in India’s freedom 
movement. He was imprisoned by the British in 1908. During his time in the prison, 
he went through a spiritual evolution. He realized that Indians had lost their 

=== PAGE 284 ===
 
 
 
 272 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
independence not only politically, but also culturally and religiously58. He dedicated 
himself to spreading Indian culture and religion. When he was released in 1910, he 
withdrew from active politics and started an aashram (monastery) in Pondicherry, 
India. During 1906-1913, he was running Scorpio’s dasa as per Drigdasa. Scorpio is 
the 7th house from AL; it aspects lagna; and, it contains its lord Ketu. For these 
reasons, Scorpio dasa can bring internal awakening and take one close to liberation. 
AL and the 7th from it can also play an important role in external activities such as 
renunciation and moving to (or starting) a monastery. 
 
However, his aashram had only a handful of followers in the beginning. As his 
magazine and books were read by more people, he started becoming popular. In 
early 1920’s, the number of students in his aashram grew manifold. During 1918-
1925, he ran Cn dasa. As Cn contains lagna, its dasa brings true enlightenment and 
also recognition. During lagna’s dasa, a monk can become a chief of a monastery. 
Here he got recognition and his aashram grew. 
 
Libra’s dasa started in August 1925. Sri Aurobindo left the material and spiritual 
charge of his aashram to the Mother and retired into seclusion to pursue yogic 
sadhana. Libra contains mrityupada and has the argala of Ketu. No wonder he 
wanted yogic sadhana in seclusion, rather than spreading religious learning in the 
world. 
 
                                                 
58 This is partly true even today. It is amazing to see how an average Indian intellectual undervalues 
the achievements of Indian culture and the wisdom in the teachings of ancient maharshis.  

=== PAGE 285 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
273 
 
 
 
22.  Niryaana Shoola Dasa 
 
22.1 Introduction 
 
Niryaana means death and shoola is a weapon of Lord Shiva, who is the lord of 
destruction. Niryaana Shoola dasa is one of the most reliable dasa systems for the 
timing of death. Parasara simply called it “Shoola dasa”, but some scholars59 use the 
name Shoola dasa to denote a different dasa. We will learn it in another chapter. In 
order to avoid confusion, we will call the dasa to be learnt in this chapter as 
“Niryaana Shoola dasa”. 
 
22.2 Computation and Interpretation 
22.2.1 
Computation 
 
Find the stronger of the 2nd and 8th houses. Start from the rasi containing that house. 
If the rasi is odd, go in the forward (zodiacal) direction and cover the 12 rasis. If the 
rasi is even, go in the backward (anti-zodiacal) direction and cover the 12 rasis. 
Dasas of movable, fixed and dual rasis have 7, 8 and 9 years respectively.60 
 
Classics are not clear about how we go about finding antardasas. This author 
suggests using the same rules used for Narayana dasa. 
 
22.2.2 
Interpretation 
 
Dasa of strong maraka rasis and dasas of rasis containing strong maraka grahas can 
bring death. Usually death occurs in the dasa of a Trishoola rasi. There are three 
Trishoola rasis and we can identify the correct rasi based on the longevity category 
(short, middle or long life). 
                                                 
59 An example is my guru Pundit Sanjay Rath, author of “Jaimini Maharishi’s Upadesa Sutras” and 
“Crux of Vedic Astrology: Timing of Events”. 
60 Sthira dasa, Mandooka dasa etc also use the same dasa years, though dasa sequences are different 
under those dasa systems. 

=== PAGE 286 ===
 
 
 
 274 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
If Trishoolas don’t bring death, the rasi containing Rudra in the 12th house can bring 
death. 
 
Antardasa at the time of death can be the 6th, 7th, 8th or 12th rasi from dasa rasi. It can 
also be a rasi that aspects the rasi that, in navamsa, contains the owner of the 8th 
house from dasa rasi. Suppose dasa rasi at death is Ta and Jupiter is in Le in 
navamsa. Then the antardasas of the 6th, 7th, 8th and 12th houses from Ta (i.e. Li, Sc, 
Sg and Ar) can bring death. Also the antardasas of Ar, Le, Li and Cp – rasis that 
aspect Le, which contains Jupiter in navamsa – can bring death. If there is a common 
rasi between these two principles, it can be a strong candidate. 
 
Example 84: Let us consider the native of Chart 8. Rudra, Trishoola etc were found 
for this native in Exercise 23. Let us calculate Niryaana Shoola dasa. 
 
We have to find the stronger of 2nd (Sg) and 8th (Ge). Sg is stronger. It is an odd rasi. 
So dasas start from Sg and go as Sg (9 years), Cp (7 years), Aq (8 years), Pi (9 
years), Ar (7 years), Ta (8 years), Ge (9 years) etc. It may be seen that Ge dasa starts 
after 9+7+8+9+7+8 = 48 years. It runs till the age of 57 years. The native died at an 
age of 50 years. So he died in Ge dasa. Why? 
 
Well, we found in Exercise 23 that Ge, Li and Aq form Trishoola and the native has 
middle life. Ge is the only Trishoola rasi whose dasa comes in the middle life range 
(36-72 years). 
 
Ge dasa ran during Dec 1994-Dec 2003. When he died in July 1997, the 4th antardasa 
was running (each antardasa is of 9 months). Antardasas in Ge dasa start from Li and 
go as Li, Sc, Sg, Cp etc. The 4th antardasa is Cp. It may be noted that Cp is the 8th 
house from Ge and Cp aspects Le, which contains Saturns in navamsa. Saturn is the 
8th lord from dasa rasi. So Ge-Cp antardasa (Ge dasa, Cp antardasa) brought death. 
 
Example 85: Let us consider Rajiv Gandhi’s chart (see Chart 39). He was 
assassinated in May 1991. 

=== PAGE 287 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
275 
 
 
 
Chart 39 
 
 
The 2nd house is stronger than the 8th house, as it is occupied by a planet (Mars). 
Dasas start from Vi. It is an even rasi and so dasas go backwards. We get Vi dasa of 
9 years, Le dasa of 8 years, Cn dasa of 7 years, Ge dasa of 9 years, Ta dasa is of 8 
years and Ar dasa of 7 years. Ar dasa ran during Aug 1985-Aug 1992. Mr. Gandhi 
died in this dasa. Why? 
 
Rudra is the stronger of the 8th lords from Le and Aq. So Rudra is the stronger of 
Moon and Saturn (see Table 32). Moon is stronger and he becomes Rudra. He is in 
Le. So Trishoola spikes are in Ar, Le and Sg. Being a Trishoola rasi, Ar can kill. 
 
In Ar dasa, each antardasa is of 7 months. During May 1991, the 10th antardasa was 
running. In Ar dasa, antardasas start from the lord of the stronger of Ar and Li. Li is 
stronger as its lord Venus aspects it. So dasas start from Le, which contains Venus. 
The 10th from Le is Ta. From Ar, the 8th lord is Ketu and he is in Cp with Mars in 
navamsa. Ta aspects Cp. 
 

=== PAGE 288 ===
 
 
 
 276 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 86: Let us consider India Gandhi’s rasi chart given in Chart 61 (in a later 
chapter). She was assassinated on October 31, 1984. 
 
Because Saturn is in Cn, we take the 8th houses from Cn and Cp in the normal way, 
instead of using Table 32. The 8th lord Rahu is debilitated and he joins another 
planet. The 2nd lord Sun also joins another planet. But debilitated 8th lord is a better 
candidate for being Rudra. So Trishoola is in the trines from Sg, i.e. Ar, Le and Sg. 
 
Because the 2nd house with a planet is stronger than the empty 8th house, dasas start 
from the 2nd house. As Le is an odd rasi, dasas go zodiacally. Dasas go as Le, Vi, Sc, 
Sg etc. It may be verified that Ar dasa runs during Nov 1982-Nov 1989. Ar is a 
Trishoola rasi. 
 
Let us find antardasas in Ar dasa. Ar is stronger than Li, as its lord Mars aspects it. 
Antardasas start from Mars in Le and go as Le, Vi, Le, Sc etc. Each antardasa is of 7 
months as Ar dasa is of 7 years. Nov 1982-June 1983 is the first antardasa of Le. 
June 1983-Jan 1984 is the second antardasaof Vi. Jan 1984-Aug 1984 is the third 
antardasa of Li. The fourth antardasa of Sc runs during Aug 1984-Mar 1985. This is 
the one that brought death. 
 
Sc is the 8th from dasa rasi Ar. So the first antardasa principle we described is 
correct. Ketu owns the the 8th from Ar and he is in Cp in navamsa. Sc aspects Cp and 
the second principle is also satisfied. 
 
Example 87: Let us consider the rasi chart of a male given in Chart 40. He expired 
towards the end of 1949. Antardasa at the time of death does not follow the 
principles explained here, but dasa follows the Trishoola principle. Let us verify it. 
 
The 8th lords from Ar and Li are Ketu and Venus. Venus  is stronger than Ketu. So 
Venus is Rudra. He is in Cp and so Ta, Vi and Cp form Trishoola. Niryaana Shoola 
dasa starts from the stronger of Ta and Sc. Sc is stronger as it has one planet. Sc is an 
even rasi and normally dasas should go as Sc, Li, Vi etc. However, Saturn occupies 
Sc and the “Saturn exception” applies. So dasas go as Sc, Sg, Cp etc. Sc dasa of 8 
years ran during 1927-1935. Sg dasa of 9 years ran during 1935-1944. Cp dasa of 7 
years ran during 1944-1951 and it brought death. As we have seen, Cp is a Trishoola 
rasi. 

=== PAGE 289 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
277 
 
 
 
Chart 40 
 
 
Using the principle of three pairs, we get “short life” as the result (lagna and 8th lord 
show short life; Moon and Saturn show short life. Lagna and HL show long life). 
That is why death came in Cp dasa and not in Ta or Vi dasa. 
 
In fact, this native was a brilliant scholar of many subjects and also good astrologer. 
He knew that he might have a short life. He was sick and bed-ridden during his 
college days. He missed most of his classes at college, but he studied on his own and 
appeared at the exams with special permission from his university (there was a 
minimum attendance requirement and he needed a waiver). Despite chronic sickness, 
he graduated with distinction and first rank. He found a good job at a young age, but 
chose not to marry till an age of 24. At his time, people in India used to get married 
at a very young age. He thought that he had a praanagandam (danger to life) and 
decided to stay a bachelor till 24. He did not want to marry a lady knowing he might 
pass away in a few years. He is an example of the positive use of astrology. 
 

=== PAGE 290 ===
 
 
 
 278 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Example 88: Let us consider the rasi chart of a gentleman shown in Chart 41. He 
passed away in 1967. 
Chart 41 
 
 
The 8th lords from Ge and Sg are Saturn and Moon. Saturn is stronger and becomes 
Rudra. Trishoola is in Ta, Vi and Cp. Shiva’s Trishoola can strike the native (kill the 
native) in one of the three dasas. Let us find dasas now. 
 
The 8th house is stronger than the 2nd house and it starts dasas. As Cp is an even rasi, 
dasas normally go as Cp, Sg, Sc etc. Here they go as Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar etc, due to 
Saturn’s presence in Cp. We can see that Vi dasa starts after 63 years 
(7+8+9+7+8+9+7+8)61. So Vi dasa runs during March 1965-March 1974. Being a 
Trishoola rasi, Vi brought death in its Niryaana Shoola dasa. 
 
Exercise 31: Consider the native whose rasi chart shown in Chart 42. Using the 
method of three pairs, estimate his longevity category. Then identify the dasa of a 
                                                 
61 One thumbrule that can help in calculating Niryaana Shoola dasa is that the sum of the first 3 dasas 
is always 24 years (7+8+9). The sum of the next 3 dasas is also 24 years. 

=== PAGE 291 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
279 
 
 
 
Trishoola rasi falling in that longevity category. Try to guess the antardasa of death. 
Give the dates instead of just mentioning the dasa rasi and antardasa rasi. 
 
Chart 42 
 
 
22.3 Conclusion 
 
Niryaana Shoola dasa is a dasa dedicated to timing one’s death. Niryaana means 
death. In this author’s humble opinion, this dasa is the best for timing death. Usually 
dasa of one of the three Trishoola rasis brings death. However, many special cases, 
exceptions and special rules mentioned by Maharshis were omited in this book. 
Timing of the antardasa of death wasn’t given due attention. Readers should be 
aware that what is taught here is only the tip of an iceberg. Further details are beyond 
the scope of this book. 
 
22.4 Answer to Exercise 
 

=== PAGE 292 ===
 
 
 
 280 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Exercise 31: 
 
Lagna lord and 8th lord is Venus. He is in a movable rasi. So we get “long life”. 
Moon and Saturn are in dual and movable rasis. So we get “short life”. Lagna and 
HL are in movable and fixed rasis. So we get “middle life”. When there is a three-
way tie, we use the Moon-Saturn pair if Moon is in lagna or 7th. That is not the case 
here. So we use the lagna and horalagna pair. This gives “middle life” as the 
longevity category (36-72 years). 
 
The 8th lord, Venus, and 8th lord from 7th, Mars, are in Aries. So Rudra is in Aries. 
Trishoola rasis are Ar, Le and Sg. Death can happen in one of the three dasas. 
 
As the 2nd house Sc is stronger due to the aspect of its lord, dasas start from Sc. As 
Sc is even, they go as Sc, Li, Vi, Le etc. Ar dasa starts after 56 years (56=24+24+8; 
24 years for Sc, Li and Vi; 24 years for Le, Cn and Ge; 8 years for Ta). So Ar dasa 
starts on April 21, 1945 and runs for 7 years. The native is likely to pass away in this 
period. 
 
Antardasa is tough to guess. The 8th lords from Ar are Mars and Ketu. They are in Sc 
in navamsa. The signs aspecting it are Ar, Cn, Sc and Cp. Of these, Sc is the 
strongest candidate as it is also the 8th from dasa rasi Aries. However, the native died 
in Aries antardasa itself (April 21, 1945-Nov 21, 1945), due to the strength of Aries 
in rasi chart. Aries not only contains Rudra, but it is also the 7th house and it contains 
2nd, 7th and 8th lords. It is a strong maraka sthana. 
 
This birthdata belongs to Adolf Hitler. History says that committed suicide on April 
30, 1945. Russian investigations after World War II supported this. 
 

=== PAGE 293 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
281 
 
 
 
23.  Shoola Dasa 
 
23.1 Introduction 
 
We looked at “Niryaana Shoola dasa” used for timing one’s death. There is another 
dasa called Shoola dasa that can also be used for timing death. It shows death, 
diseases, suffering and death of relatives. 
 
23.2 Computation 
 
Find the stronger of lagna and the 7th house. Dasas start there and always go in the 
regular zodiacal order. For example, if lagna is in Sc and Ta is stronger than Sc, 
dasas go as Ta, Ge, Cn, Le etc. If lagna is in Le and Aq is stronger than Le, dasas go 
as Aq, Pi, Ar, Ta etc. Each dasa is of 9 years. Each dasa is divided into 12 equal 
antardasas. Antardasas are found using the same rules as dasas, but treating dasa rasi 
as lagna. If Cn dasa is running and Cn is stronger than Cp, then antardasas go as Cn, 
Le, Vi, Li etc and each antardasa will last 9 months. 
 
Human beings live in the womb for an average of 9 months. For animals with an 
average of gestation period of n months, each dasa and antardasa will be of n years 
and n months respectively. 
 
In mundane astrology, we can use Shoola dasa by compressing 108 years to the time 
period of effect of the chart. For example, suppose we want compressed Shoola dasa 
for the swearing-in chart of an Indian Prime Minister. Then, 108 years of Shoola 
dasa are compressed to 5 years or 60 months (which is the term of an Indian Prime 
Minister) and a dasa of 9 years is compressed 60/12 = 5 months. 
 
23.3 Interpretation 
 
Like in Niryana Shoola dasa, dasa of a Trishoola rasi can bring death. Because the 
2nd and 8th rasis in the natural zodiac are owned by Mars and Venus, rasi aspect on 

=== PAGE 294 ===
 
 
 
 282 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
either of them by Moon generates Rudra yoga and rasis aspected by Rudra yoga 
planets can give death. 
 
This author found the following rules to hold true in many cases: 
 
“AL or the trines from it can give death. If malefics or marakas occupy or aspect the 
3rd from AL or the 8th from AL, those 2 houses can give death.” 
 
Lagna and 7th house both show the self of a person. They stand for the invisible and 
visible selves. Niryaana Shoola dasa starts from the 8th house from one of them. 
Niryaana Shoola dasa essentially shows the progress of the 8th house. It shows the 
motion of praana (life). That is why it has an uneven motion. It goes forward in some 
charts and backward in some charts. Also the lengths of dasas can be 7, 8 or 9 years. 
All this shows that different people have different motion of praana. When praana 
reaches Shiva’s Trishoola or a powerful maraka rasi, the native can die. In Shoola 
dasa, however, the motion has a constant rate of 9 years per dasa and the order of 
dasas is always fixed. This fixed motion is like the motion of a quartz crystal. It is 
not the motion of praana and it must be a universal motion. It is suggested that 
Shoola dasas show the force of Lord Shiva. The force of Lord Shiva starts from 
one’s self and moves at a constant rate in a fixed direction. So Shoola dasa rasi 
hitting Trishoola rasis is less significant than Niryaana Shoola dasa rasi hitting 
Trishoola rasis. In the case of Shoola dasa, death occurs when Shiva’s motion hits 
AL or the trines from it or the houses of vitality from AL (3rd and 8th). AL is 
involved instead of lagna, because our existence is a maya (illusion) and what Lord 
Shiva destroys is the illusion of our existence. The physical body (lagna) simply 
merges with the material universe, when burnt or buried, and the perceived self or 
the maya  of existence (AL) is what is completely destroyed by Lord Shiva. 
 
Lesson: Niryaana Shoola dasa shows the motion of praana (life). Death occurs when 
praana hits maraka rasis and the trines from Rudra (Trishoola rasis). Shoola dasa is 
the reverse. It shows the motion of Shiva. Death occurs primarily when Shiva’s 
motion hits the trines from AL or the 3rd house from AL or the 8th house from AL. 
 
We have listed several rasis above. How do we choose one answer from the list? 
There are 2 criteria: (1) Usually a rasi occupied or aspected by AK or Jupiter does 
not kill a native, unless that planet happens to be Rudra. (2) Based on whether the 
native is of short/middle/long life, we are limited to just 4 dasas. The first 4 Shoola 

=== PAGE 295 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
283 
 
 
 
dasas (0-36 years) bring death to a person of the short life category. The middle 4 
Shoola dasas (36-72 years) bring death to a person of the middle life category. The 
last 4 Shoola dasas (72-108 years) bring death to a person of the long life category. 
We should choose a good candidate from those dasas. 
 
23.4 Examples 
 
Example 89: Let us revisit Example 84 that we analyzed using Niryaana Shoola 
dasa. 
 
Lagna is stronger and dasas start from Sc. They go as Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq etc. Each dasa 
is of 9 years. First 5 dasas are over after 45 years. The native died in the 50th year. 
From his 45th year, the 6th dasa was running. So the 6th dasa of Ar killed the native. 
One can see that Ar is a trine from AL. It is the only trine in the middle life range. 
 
Example 90: Let us revisit Example 85 that we analyzed using Niryaana Shoola 
dasa. 
 
Lagna is stronger and dasas start from Le. They go as Le, Vi, Li, Sc etc. Each dasa is 
of 9 years. First 5 dasas are over after 45 years. The native died in his 47th year. 
From his 45th year, the 6th dasa was running. So the 6th dasa of Cp killed the native. 
One can see that Cp is the only trine from AL in the middle life range. 
 
Example 91: Let us revisit Example 86 that we analyzed using Niryaana Shoola 
dasa. 
 
The 7th house Cp is stronger and dasas start from Cp. They go as Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar etc. 
Each dasa is of 9 years. First 7 dasas are over after 63 years. The native died in her 
67th year. From her 63rd year, the 8th dasa was running. So the 8th dasa of Le killed 
the native. One can see that Le is a trine from AL and it contains the lord of AL. So 
Shiva destroyed the material existence of the native in Cp’s Shoola dasa. 
 
Example 92: Let us revisit Example 87 that we analyzed using Niryaana Shoola 
dasa. 
 

=== PAGE 296 ===
 
 
 
 284 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Lagna is stronger and dasas start from Ar. They go as Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn etc. Each dasa 
is of 9 years. First 2 dasas are over after 18 years. The native died in the 23rd year. 
From his 18th year, the 3rd dasa was running. So the 3rd dasa of Ge killed the native. 
One can see that Ge is the 8th house from AL (see Table 3262) and it contains Rahu. 
In other words, Ge is afflicted and it is the house of longevity of material self. When 
Shiva’s motion hit that rasi, the native died. 
 
Exercise 32: Consider the native of Chart 43. Using the method of three pairs, 
estimate whether he has short or middle or long life. Then evaluate Shoola dasa and 
identify the four dasas in the estimated longevity range. Consider the trines from AL 
and the 3rd and 8th houses (using Table 32). Think hard and choose the dasa that must 
have given death. 
 
Chart 43 
 
 
                                                 
62 The 8th house for the purpose of Rudra, the principle of 3 pairs and ayur dasa interpretation should 
be found from Table 32. 

=== PAGE 297 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
285 
 
 
 
23.5 Death of Near Relatives 
 
Shoola dasa shows Shiva’s punishment. It shows misfortune, suffering and death. 
Using it, death of near relatives can also be timed. 
 
For each relative, we treat the house that shows him/her as lagna and find Shoola 
dasa based on it. Shoola dasa starts from the stronger of that rasi and the 7th from it. 
We have different names for Shoola dasas started from different houses. For 
example, Pitri Shoola dasa (pitri = father) starts from the stronger of 9th and 3rd 
houses. It is used in the timing of father’s death. Bhratri Shoola dasa (bhratri = 
brother) also starts from the stronger of 3rd and 9th houses and it shows the death of 
younger siblings. Matri Shoola dasa (matri = mother) starts from the stronger of 4th 
and 10th houses. Dara Shoola dasa (dara = wife) starts from the stronger of 7th and 1st 
houses and it shows the death of wife (this dasa will be identical to the native’s 
normal Shoola dasa). Putra Shoola dasa (putra = son) starts from the stronger of 5th 
and 11th houses and it shows the death of a child. 
 
We mentioned earlier that sthira karakas are useful in timing death. Sthira karaka of 
father represents father in a chart, for the purpose of matters controlled by Shiva (i.e. 
suffering and death). Pitri Shoola dasa shows the motion of Shiva’s force for the 
father. When Shiva’s force strikes trines from sthira karaka of father, father’s death 
can take place. Trines from the corresponding arudha pada can also give death. 
 
Similarly, we can time the death of other near relatives. Let us see a couple of 
examples. 
 
Example 93: Let us consider the native of Chart 44. His father passed away in the 
second half of 1995. 
 
Exalted Sun joins Mercury and Jupiter aspects him. So Sun is stronger than Venus. 
He becomes sthira pitri karaka (fixed significator of father). Death can occur in trines 
from him, i.e. Ar, Le and Sg. Pitri pada (A9, arudha pada of 9th house) is in Sg. 
Trines from it are the same. 
 
The 9th house is in Aq. Among Aq and Le, Aq is stronger as its lord Rahu is in a rasi 
with a different oddity. Dasas go as Aq, Pi, Ar etc. 

=== PAGE 298 ===
 
 
 
 286 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
 
Dasa of Aq runs during 1971-1980. Dasa of Pi runs during 1980-1989. Dasa of Ar 
runs during 1989-1998. Death occurred in this dasa. As already noted, Ar contains 
sthira karaka of father and it is a trine from A9. 
 
Chart 44 
 
 
Example 94: Let us consider Indira Gandhi’s birthdata given in Chart 61 (in a later 
chapter). Her father Jawaharlal Nehru died in May 1964. Her husband Feroze 
Gandhi died in 1960. Her son Sanjay Gandhi died in June 1980. 
 
Sthira karaka of father is Venus here, as he is in a dual rasi. He shows father, for the 
purpose of matters ruled by Shiva. Death of father can occur in the trines from 
Venus, i.e. Sg, Ar and Le. Pitri Shoola dasa starts from Pi (9th house) and goes as Pi, 
Ar, Ta, Ge etc. Le dasa starts after 5 dasas, i.e. in 1917 + 45 = 1962. It runs till 1971. 
Her father died in 1964 in this dasa. 
 
Jupiter is sthira karaka of husband. He shows husband, for the purpose of matters 
ruled by Shiva. Death of husband can occur in trines from Jupiter. Dara Shoola dasa 

=== PAGE 299 ===
 
 
 
Part 2: Dasa Analysis 
287 
 
 
 
starts from Cp and goes as Cp, Aq, Pi, Ar etc. Jupiter is in Ta and Ta dasa runs from 
1917 + 36 = 1953. It ends in 1962. Her husband died in 1960 in this dasa. 
 
Jupiter is also sthira karaka of children. He shows children, for the purpose of 
matters ruled by Shiva. Death of son can occur in trines from Jupiter. Putra Shoola 
dasa starts from Sc (5th house and stronger than Ta) and goes as Sc, Sg, Cp, Aq etc. 
Jupiter is in Ta and Ta dasa runs from 1917 + 54 = 1971. It ends in November 1980. 
Her son Sanjay Gandhi died in June 1980. He died in Ta dasa. 
 
Exercise 33: Consider the rasi chart of a lady born in 1950, given in Chart 45. 
Compute Shoola dasa and identify the dasas that can give death to her husband. 
Looking at the 3rd from sthira karaka for husband, guess whether the death was 
violent or peaceful. 
Chart 45 
 
 
23.6 Answers to Exercises 
 
Exercise 32: 
 

=== PAGE 300 ===
 
 
 
 288 
Vedic Astrology: An Integrated Approach
Method of three pairs: (1) Lagna lord and 8th lord is Venus and he is in dual rasi. 
Dual + Dual gives middle life. (2) Moon is in a fixed rasi and Saturn is in a dual rasi. 
Fixed + Dual gives long life. (3) Lagna and HL are in movable rasis. Movable + 
Movable gives long life. So the final result is “long life”. This range covers 72-108 
years. So the last 4 Shoola dasas can bring death. 
 
Shoola dasa: The 7th house Aries is stronger as it has the aspect of Sun, Mercury and 
its lord Mars. Dasas start from Ar and go as Ar, Ta, Ge, Cn etc. The first 8 dasas are 
over after 72 years (8 x 9). The 9th dasa of Sg runs during 72-81 years of age. The 
10th dasa of Cp runs during 81-90 years of age. The 11th dasa of Aq runs during 90-
99 years of age. The 12th dasa of Pi runs during 99-108 years of age. These are the 
four dasas in the long life range. 
 
Death when: Arudha lagna is in Aq. The trines are Aq, Ge and Li. The only trine in 
the long life range, i.e. among the 4 rasis mentioned above, is Aq. Its dasa can give 
death. However, it contains Jupiter who is also AK. So its dasa is unlikely to kill. We 
can try the 8th house from AL. From Table 32, we find that Cp is the 8th house from 
Aq. It is afflicted by Rahu here (just as in Example 92). So it is a good candidate. 
 
Final Answer: This chart belongs to Frank Sinatra, a legendary singer and actor of 
US. He died of a heart attack on May 14, 1998. He died in his 83rd year. Shoola dasa 
of Cp was running then. 
 
Exercise 33: 
 
Shoola dasa starts from Sg and goes thus – Sg: 1950-1959, Cp: 1959-1968, Aq: 
1968-1977, Pi: 1977-1986, Ar: 1986-1995, Ta: 1995-2004, Ge: 2004-2013. Sthira 
karaka of husband is Jupiter and he is in Cp. So death can occur in Cp, Ta and Vi. Of 
these, Cp dasa comes too early. Most likely candidate is Ta dasa (1995-2004). 
 
Sthira karaka for husband is Jupiter. The 3rd from him is Pi, occupied by Moon and 
Rahu. Mars also aspects it. So the death is likely to be violent. 
 
Husband of this lady passed away in a road accident in 2000. 
 

